Global diversification in fixed income
markets is actually valuable for the
first time in a long time.
>> The US bond market is still the most
liquid market in the world.
>> The long end of the ilk will go up.
>> The tenure is doing its job. If we could
get ahead of our fiscal policy problems,
I think we could calm the bond markets
down.
>> Bloomberg surveillance live from Davos
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
[music] and An Marie Hordern.
Live from Davos, Switzerland this
morning. Good morning. Good morning for
our audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. What a
week at the World Economic Forum where
national leaders have been convening for
the last several days. The most accurate
forecaster of the week. The Finnish
president Alexander Stub asked earlier
this week what would happen with
Greenland by the time we got to the end
of the week and he said things would be
diffused. They would stabilize. That is
exactly where we are so far this
morning. Equities rebounded yesterday
and Lisa some followthrough so far this
morning. Yeah, and you're seeing in a
broad-based rally across the US, but
also very much in Europe because no
troops going into Greenland. We learned
that there are now going to there going
to be no tariffs on Europe come uh
February 1st. A real question though is
everything back to where it was before
Davos. [music] And the answer for a lot
of people is maybe not. There is a clear
feeling of ill among a lot of European
officials here. Let's see if that
carries out into action at their
upcoming meeting.
>> It's important to frame how we got to
this place. I think a lot of people
might wake up and conclude looking at
the comments from the president
yesterday evening and earlier on again
this morning and say this is another
case of the president so-called
chickening out. I think that would be
unfair an unfair characterization as to
what happened this week. What happened
this week? This was the first time that
G7 allies had really had enough and
started to push back. We saw that from
Canada. We saw that with with France as
well. The president was this close to
crossing a line.
>> It's a great point, Jonathan. This just
wasn't a classic taco as you would call
it. Trump always chickens out. And the
difference between how the G7 and
European leaders acted here in Davos
than in prior events that I have
traveled with the president is that they
did it publicly. You always hear they're
pushing back at the president, but that
is behind the scenes. Here they took
their moments whether speaking to the
press or at global stages to address the
forum pushing back at how the United
States is handling in what many would
call a new global order. The question
you've got to ask Lisa now is does that
set the stage for how this relationship
will be for the remainder of the
president's second terms when he pushes?
Are we going to see a lot more of the
people on the other side pushing back?
>> I was struck by something that Richie
Sunak, the former prime minister of the
UK said this morning when he said it's
clear that we need more hard power
because ultimately it's clear that
that's [music] what speaks volumes in
this type of rhetoric. soft power
doesn't work in the same way and that's
why you're going to see all these
additional investments in military
equipment in Euro region and beyond. It
is clear that something else speaks
volumes in this new world order as Mark
Carney was talking about. That's a shift
and that is material and fear. You
really can feel it tangibly here.
>> Got a fantastic lineup here at Davos
Switzland throughout this morning. We'll
be catching up with the US energy
secretary Chris Wright, US commerce
secretary Howard Lutnik and the Bank of
America chairman and CEO Brian Moahan.
lots of questions for him, including the
upgrade to the GDP forecast that came
from Bank of America and the economist
and the research department in the last
week. And I think it's important to
point this out that when you speak to
business leaders away from the
volatility in international relations,
they are very bowled up on the outlook
for America this year. And this to me is
the dichotomy because on one hand you
hear European leaders talking about how
they need to uh just diverge from the
United States move away from it and then
you talk to business leaders Sarah
Jeremati with you uh UBS you can't there
is no other like the United States in
terms of momentum and you see that with
business leaders too saying look if you
look at AI you look at growth you look
at the consumer it is very strong in the
United States and you have to be exposed
>> coach I think framed it quite nicely the
difference between selling and buying
less
And I think she framed it so well when
she said ultimately you'll just see
people buying less. And that's the
diversification story that might develop
in the years to come.
>> And doesn't actually mean that people
are sell sell America. It's what a lot
of people on this program been call
talking about global diversification.
You just want to make sure you have
other assets elsewhere. And the place to
be right now everyone is just pouring
into has been what? Precious metals,
gold. And that has been a continuous
theme from last year that is carrying
over to 2026.
>> We check out gold new forecast over at
Goldman Sachs. What are we 3 weeks into
the new year end forecast over at
Goldman Sachs?
>> Yeah. Coming out and saying not 4,800.
They're talking about 5,600 for the
year- end total per ounce for the
precious metal gold. It is notable. It
is just 3 weeks into the year and they
are already upgrading the forecast. Why?
Because it's not just global central
banks that are diversifying into the
precious metal. It's now institutional
investors. It's now retail investors and
they tend to be stickier and longerl
lasting and suddenly you've got central
bankers that are competing with the
retail investors for a limited supply
and this really is a dynamic that's
helping to poop up boost up prospect
>> and also why guys it's a Trump news
cycle we are 3 weeks into the new year
and look what already has been what has
happened on the geopolitical space the
capturing of Nicholas Maduro the
threatening of Greenland and that is
just international look at what is going
on domestically and I caught up with the
national economic council director Kevin
Hassid who said Even more of those ideas
about affordability, which some of them
are quite populous, that's going to come
out at the State of the Union. Well,
that's not till February. So, we have a
long road ahead. What feels like
election cycles within just 2 3 weeks
time.
>> It is going to be a long year. The
president of the United States
dominating this get together in Davos,
Switzerland. Take a listen to what he
had to say a little bit earlier.
>> Yesterday was a tremendous success. A
lot of good things happened. There's
tremendous potential with the United
Nations and I think the combination of
the board of peace with the kind of
people we have here coupled with the
United Nations can be you know something
very very unique for the world.
>> Joining us now in Washington DC is
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Tyler,
welcome to the program. Plenty of
headlines here to process
internationally. How's it playing out in
Washington DC?
>> Hey John, good morning. Well, at this
point, I think that it wasn't just
European allies that uh had that
collective sigh of relief when it came
to the developments and President Trump
backing off of his threats to impose
those additional tariffs against
countries that have rallied support
around Greenland, but also here in
Washington, too. We've heard from
multiple lawmakers on Capitol Hill,
spanning both sides of the aisle that
they are applauding President Trump's
move to strike what he is calling a
framework of a future deal. Although we
haven't heard many specifics on exactly
what this will entail, the president
himself says that the understanding on
the table is enough for him to back off
of his threats to impose those
additional levies. And I bring that up
because we really have heard
congressional lawmakers on both sides of
the aisle raise concerns about the
president taking any sort of unilateral
action when it comes to Greenland. And
that is the needle that particularly
Republicans are starting to thread here
in Washington. Perhaps agreeing with the
president's uh ideas when it comes to
expanding US influence in the Arctic,
agreeing when it comes to his position
on advancing national security to
counter Russia and China, but
disagreeing with the fact that until
yesterday, the White House had not ruled
out that there would be military force
used to uh take over Greenland in some
sense. Though, John, of course, did
appear that we were moving towards that
off-ramp after the president did confirm
that he wasn't intending to use massive
military force when it came to the
territory. Now, it was interesting to
learn that this came after President
Trump met privately with the NATO
Secretary General Mark Ruta, who told
Bloomberg News earlier this morning that
the pair did not discuss Greenland
sovereignty at all. Instead, they were
focused on the broader issue of national
security in the Arctic. that has left us
with a lot of questions on what this
potential deal could entail. We know
that one of the things on the table is
the US's plans for a golden glo a golden
dome missile defense system. That is
something that has pretty broad support
in the US Congress as well as what US
involvement in Greenland's military uh
in Greenland's critical mineral rights
is ultimately going to look like. You
heard the president earlier. He said
that this is going to be a long-term
deal. that has led some analysts to
believe that he is perhaps referencing
the outlines of a potential lease when
it comes to US involvement there. Uh
John, there's a lot that we're going to
follow here, but of course it was
critical to hear Denmark's point of
view, including their prime minister
affirming that sovereignty is not on the
table, but that we should look out for
deals potentially when it comes to the
security, economy, and of course what
President Trump loves to tout and that's
investment.
Tyler, sitting here in Davos,
Switzerland, we heard from Senator Tom
Tillis, but really it's been the
European reaction that has been visceral
when it comes to President Trump's
rhetoric on Greenland. Do you think it
was the Europeans that really pushed him
to take the temperature down, or was it
his own party in Washington?
Well, it's probably a combination of the
two, Anmarie. Though of course we really
did see our European allies take this
strong stance, including the fact that
there are still some open questions
about what some of the ramifications
from the escalation over the last week
are going to entail, including that the
European Parliament had delayed
ratifying the US EU trade deal in the
wake of this and were planning their own
retaliatory tariffs that we know were
already in part queued up because of
prior escalation with the Trump
administration. We've also seen this
dovetail into other issues too, right?
We saw a stark confrontation between
President Trump and the French President
Emanuel Macron that resulted in
President Trump threatening that 200%
tariff against French wine and
champagne. But that didn't just have to
do with what was escalating rhetoric
over Greenland. It also had to do with
the Board of Peace, which we saw earlier
this morning, President Trump on stage
ratifying that agreement with their
signatures and concerns from our
European allies that the issue of
Greenland is now taking away from
another critical issue on the table. And
that is what is going to happen in
Ukraine, including the fact that the US
had invited Russian President Vladimir
Putin to play a role in this Gaza Board
of Peace and the concerns that this is
going to extend into other international
issues. Of course, a big headline this
morning was that President Trump says
that he wants the Board of Peace to work
in quote conjunction with the United
Nations. And Marie, as you well know,
uh, special envoy Steve Wickoff told you
that they do think that they're about
90% there when it comes to a potential
peace agreement. Ukrainian President
Zalinsky has landed there in Davos for
this highly anticipated meeting with
President Trump. Though we still know
there are a lot of big sticking points,
particularly when it comes to territory
as Steve Wickoff and the president's
son-in-law, Jared Kushner, get ready to
head to Moscow for another round of
negotiations with the Russian President
Vladimir Putin.
>> Tyler, great work as always down in
Washington DC. Tyler Kendall very much
the last 24 hours, I think, defined by
what didn't happen rather than what did.
Didn't really talk about tariffs. That
deadline for credit card interest caps,
that's kind of come and gone. At least
we're sitting here today and I've got no
idea what the future of that policy is.
But I imagine for the bankers here in
Davos, Switzerland, they're happy it's
hardly been talked about.
>> Yeah, they're happy that their focus has
been on Greenland and other things and
tariffs and their focus really has been
taken off the domestic. I'll add to that
home affordability, housing
affordability. We were expecting to have
a speech about Fanny May and Freddy Mack
and exactly how they were going to lower
prices. That was just a footnote and
then we found out from the
administration. Expect more details
maybe next week. So the temperature has
been taken down on a lot of domestic
issues. Very much in the focus is the
geopolitics of the moment and just
whether the United States has caused a
permanent breach in the relationship
between the US and Europe.
>> To use the prime minister's words, Prime
Minister Carney, a rupture, not a
transition. It's been a big week.
>> It's been a huge week and the president
really focused on foreign policy while
he's here. And you have to wonder how
much is this going to resonate with
Americans back home. The polling on
Greenland for the administration has
been not helpful for them. About 80% of
Americans do not want the United States
to acquire Greenland. Maybe they're open
to some deals. uh you know but the
president has a view of it's better to
buy or why rent when you can buy but for
now it looks like there will be renting
and negotiations in earnest potentially
happening when it comes to affordability
I guess we have to wait until the state
of the union according to Kevin Hasset
with things like housing when you
mentioned credit cards though Jamie
Diamond was quite spicy on credit
>> love that tank you see that
>> and he gave a dig to senators Bernie
Sanders and Elizabeth Warren individuals
who have pushed for a 10% interest rate
cap without naming their name but You
know, try this. If you think it's such a
good idea, try this in Vermont and
Massachusetts.
>> See how it works out. That's the message
from Jamie Diamond at JP Morgan. We'll
be talking about some of these issues
with Brian Mohamad at Bank of America
later on this morning. It just feels
like in the last 24 hours, we just turn
the volume down just a little bit, but
the issues have not gone away. Let's
give an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Let's
cross over to Vonnie Quinn for more.
Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. President
Donald Trump launching his board of
peace initiative today in Davos which he
says will promote geopolitical
stability. The president adding the
organization would quote work with many
others including the United Nations.
Trump was joined on stage by founding
members of the board including Argentine
President Javier [music] Malay.
A major reversal from President Trump
when it comes to Greenland. The
president saying he won't impose tariffs
on goods from countries that oppose
[music] his plans to gain possession of
the island. He says he's reached the
framework of a future deal after a
meeting with NATO Secretary General Mark
Rut. [music] Secretary General Rut says
Greenland sovereignty was not part of
the discussion.
Bank of America CEO Brian Moyahan was
left off the invite list for a reception
honoring President Donald Trump last
night in Davos. The Financial Times
reporting Moahan was the only CEO of a
major Wall Street bank not to be
invited. [music]
It marks the second time the White House
has left Moahan out of such a gathering.
Moahan though will join the surveillance
team in Davos at 8:30 a.m. Eastern.
[music]
And that is your Bloomberg brief.
Sending it back to you guys in Davos.
John.
>> Hey Vonyie. Appreciate it. More from
Vonyie in about 30 minutes time. Up next
on the program. We'll catch up with
Peransa, the CEO of EQT, the world's
second largest private equity firm.
>> [music]
>> live from Davos, Switzerland this
morning. Good morning. Check out the
price action. Equity shaping up as
follows on the S&P 500. some positive
follow-through from yesterday's rally
off the back of what looks like
deescalation from the president of the
United States up by a half of 1% on the
S&P at least on the NASDAQ up by almost
one full percentage point.
>> Yeah, and you have to add to this. Not
only did the temperature get taken down
here, but the temperature also got taken
down in Japan and we should just note
that since a lot of people were talking
about that driving the bond market move
and you are seeing a bit into bonds once
again. So all of this helping to fuel a
more risk on feel in equities.
>> Should we turn to the bond market twos,
tens, and 30s? I have to say it's gone a
bit snoozy again [music] in the bond
market, hasn't it? Check it out. Yield's
really not doing much at all. How much
of it was about Greenland? How much of
it was about Tokyo, Japan, and the JGB
market? We're never really going to
know. But I do think taking a step back
on this week, that was some serious
market push back, not against the
president, but against Tokyo. I think it
was a combination of the two and you saw
the knee-jerk reaction in markets after
the speech where people did bid into
bonds that much more but certainly the
driver was suddenly the lynch pin of the
bond market keeping a floor under yields
seems to be removed and that I think is
dabilizing. I will just say the move
index the volatility implied volatility
in bonds is still almost nothing. So
despite the volatility in headlines,
where is it being priced in markets?
>> In gold apparently where we're looking
for what now 6K is that the Goldman
forecast by next week something like
>> six and a half 7,000.
>> Just wait a couple weeks and maybe it
will keep changing.
>> Yeah, every single day at the moment.
Let's turn to private equity EQT lining
up a $3.2 billion deal for collar
capital as the booming market for
secondaries heats up. Joining us now is
per Franson, the CEO of EQT, the world's
second largest private equity firm. Per,
good to see you, sir. Congratulations on
the deal as well.
>> Thank you. What is it about the
secondaries market that's really taking
off at the moment?
>> Um well the the secondaries market is
one of the fastest growing segments in
uh in in the private markets and there's
a number of structural forces driving
that growth. Um uh one of them of course
is uh the lack of distributions that
we've seen in the last couple of years
um um coming out of the industry. Um but
then there's a number of other more
long-term underlying structural forces
um such as the convergence between uh
private and and and public markets. Um
but then also you know the whole
industry becoming more mature, bigger,
more complex and that is driving the
need for uh private market investors to
also rebalance and restructure their
portfolios and that's why this part of
the market is growing so fast.
>> Often if you ask people for the
distinction the difference between
public and private one thing they might
point to is liquidity. Are you seeing
liquidity improve and with it price
discovery
>> in in in the private markets? Yeah, I
mean there's a lot of innovation
happening right now and and the whole
evolution around the second secondary
part of the market is a is an important
element in this. Um uh there's the trend
around continuation vehicles but then
also the emergence of uh many you know
private wealth focused open-ended
structures uh that also provide
liquidity on a more regular basis but I
would say if you enter the private
markets as an investor uh you should be
prepared to be invested for longer. Is
there a greater degree of skepticism as
you meet a great growing number of
investors whether it's in the Middle
East or elsewhere about investing in
private equity because there haven't
been the same kind of exits that they
had been expecting? There weren't the
same kind of dividends that they were
promised at the outset particularly for
the 2020 and 2021 vintages.
>> Yeah. Uh it's uh it's it's funny right I
mean uh every time there is a downturn
in the private equity markets and in
dealm people are questioning the model
right and um but uh you know the way we
think about it at at EQ the private
equity market is is a long-term uh
growth market right and and uh the
ownership model in the private markets
is a very attractive one and uh you can
drive a lot of value creation that is
not necessarily correlated with what's
happening in the public markets right
and so that's Why we believe uh that the
private markets and the private equity
model will also be very attractive in
the future.
>> You're a Scandinavianbased company.
Scandinavia very much front and focus
this Davos for a lot of reasons. I just
wonder if you compare what we're hearing
among businesses, enthusiasm, excitement
for deals and what we're hearing in
politics, which is the divergence and
moving away from the United States if
you're in Europe and trying to
diversify. Do you see that kind of
tension playing out in your business? I
mean it's been great to to be here in
Davos from that perspective, right? To
engage with business leaders um uh uh
leaders in politics um and uh I'd say
the tone has been surprisingly positive,
right? Both from um um business leaders
and and and and from political leaders.
Um and uh um you mentioned like the
focus on deals and and transactions.
That's been one element. Um but also the
realization that uh you know the the the
regions also outside of the US need to
get their act together, need to drive a
more business friendly and
innovationfriendly agenda and those have
been some of the conversations that I've
had um and there's a number of really
exciting initiatives here um and and I'm
in particular excited also about like um
the interest in public private
partnerships from some of those
political leaders. So, um I think all of
those are aspects in relation to what's
happening in the world
>> given what's going on in Washington and
some would call unpredictable policies.
Do you actually find that you are
getting more investors excited about
you? Because to Lisa's point, you are
outside the US. Do you have a leg up now
on US competitors? So a trend that we're
definitely seeing uh is that um there's
more focus now as a result of the
geopolitical uncertainty and volatility
uh among private market investors to
achieve a better diver diversification
in their portfolios right and uh that's
geographically uh but also uh like
across strategies ac across asset
classes uh and that is also one of the
trends uh why the consolidation in the
private markets will continue and
accelerate. right? Because you need to
have the scale, you need to have the uh
geographical reach to be able to engage
with investors and and help them achieve
their strategic portfolio objectives.
>> But given the mood music, are you still
on track for the $250 billion investment
into the United States?
>> Um we uh we we continue to be positive
on the US, right? I mean, there's a lot
of economic growth, a lot of innovation
happening in the US, right? And also in
my conversations with investors, that's
not really the topic or the point,
right? It's more about having an
appropriate diversification in your
portfolio, right? But that the US should
always be an important part of any uh
public or private market portfolio.
That's uh yeah, that's unquestionable.
Can you help us understand how you
achieve thematic diversification
>> and achieve scale at the same time when
it feels like if you want to do both you
end up in the same place which is a
story surrounded by AI.
>> Yeah.
>> And data centers. How do you get away
from that and achieve scale? Um well I I
do think that you know AI is is is one
of the most attractive themes of our
generation right and and you want to be
invested in that theme but you can also
do that in different ways right at EQT
we we can invest into that theme out of
our early stage funds and native AI
opportunities but also at the
infrastructure layer right and I know
that there's a lot of talk about um
excessive valuations or or potentially
like over capacity being built up at
that infrastructure layer. That is not
what we are seeing at the infrastructure
layer. We continue to have a lot of
conviction on the opportunity in that
part of the AI.
>> Do you still see more constraints than
over capacity at the moment and where do
you see constraints?
>> We we you know the constraints are in
terms of access to power right and and
access to energy. So at we're also one
of the largest investors globally into
energy. And so combined with some of the
data center investments that we have, we
can like have really strategic
conversations with some of the
hyperscalers. And the demand for AI
compute um I mean vastly still is is
much higher than than than the capacity
that we see in the market right now.
>> It's amazing how quickly these tech
companies have just become real estate
developers, isn't it? [laughter]
>> Well, that's what a lot of people say,
particularly for some of the Neoclads,
etc. Question is, will all that real
estate be necessary in the same kind of
way maybe in 10 years? And are they the
right guys to manage it
>> given [clears throat] they haven't
managed assets at all really for the
last decade.
>> I think they can find some people who
will manage it for them. I [laughter]
think that they probably can here.
>> I get it. Thank you, sir. It's good to
see you. Appreciate it. Thanks for
dropping by. Congratulations on the
deal.
>> EQT partner CEO Per Fransson there on
the situation with AI and the need for
diversification.
>> Yeah, and increasingly diversification
the conversations we've had means to
diversify outside of the United States.
But the idea that you brought up of how
do you diversify away from artificial
intelligence? The answer is it just
depends where you go within artificial
intelligence. You don't try to get away
from it because it will be one of the
bedrocks of our economy.
>> To Amar's question, if you want to
invest a lot of money right now and you
need to deploy capital. If you take the
United States out of the situation, it's
quite hard to find those sized
opportunities out there outside of
America,
>> which is the reason why nobody's saying
outright except for a Danish pension
fund, we're selling entirely. That said,
>> what are they selling?
>> Right. 100. Yeah. [laughter] Not very
small. Apparently, Greenland is is also
looking at different
>> but the issue to me really is what is
the extra premium on US assets as a
result of this sort of slight shift.
>> It feels like things have changed.
[music]
>> It does.
>> We'll get into it. Up next, the CEO Ron
Kusfki on the outlook for M&A. Plus,
we'll get you some morning movers. We'll
touch base with Danny Burgerer in just a
moment. [music] From Davos, Switzerland,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
live from Davos, Switzerland this
morning. Good morning to you all. Check
out the markets. Positive follow-through
rally yesterday continues through the
session so far early this morning.
Equity futures up across the board on
the S&P on the NASDAQ with your morning
movers. Let's cross over to Danny
Burgerer for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. That NASDAQ outperformance
helped buy the memory chip stocks.
Another solid pre-market session after
only a blip earlier this week. It also
helps that Jensen Hong was talking about
the trillions of dollars needed for AI
infrastructure at Davos. We also get
Intel earnings after the bell. [music]
So that may add or take away from this
rally. Merna that's also rallying a
study in conjunction with Merc combined
two of their drugs and they saw better
outcomes for melanoma patients. That
positive [music] study sending shares up
4%. Finally rounding things off with the
ADRs of Alibaba this morning up 4.7%. A
Bloomberg scoop that they are looking at
IPOing their chipmaking unit Tea Head.
It's no surprise that that would uh be
very attractive to investors and unlock
a lot of value for Alibaba. So those
shares up [music] just under 5%. John
>> Danny, thanks for the update. More from
Danny in the next hour. Let's turn to
the financials. Investors expecting deal
activity to heat up in the banking
sector. Joining us now is the Steve CEO
Ron Kashki. Ron, good to see you, sir.
>> Good to see you.
>> You were in the room yesterday with the
president.
>> Yeah.
>> Talk to us about the mood in that room.
What was your impression of things?
>> Well, I would say the mood of this
conference has been a little on edge.
All right. To put it politely in the in
and in the room, uh, it was the same
thing. Uh, but you know, from my
perspective sitting in the room, I you
know, I really wasn't surprised. Uh, is
anyone surprised that the president does
not practice Davos diplomacy? Okay, he
just doesn't. And so what would take
usually 20 speeches and maybe 10 state
dinners to make onetenth of the point he
made in an hour yesterday uh is is just
style. All right. So he throws it
against the wall. I'm sitting there
going, everyone's going like crazy said
this is this will be resolved in a
couple days. It was actually resolved in
a couple hours. Do you think these kind
of things are making corporate America
more proactive and not less?
>> Uh that's a that's a great question. Uh
more I I look I think economic policies
immediate depreciation
the the policies that uh less uh
regulation what's going on in the bank
sector with consolidation because you
don't have as much regulation is making
business more proactive in a good way. I
mean business is good. Well, to build on
that point, proactive in terms also of
mergers and acquisitions is scale
because scale is power right now because
you can adjust more easily to a
landscape that seems to be shifting
pretty quickly.
>> Uh that's true, but I feel like that's
been true my entire career. So scale
does matter and you have to shift to the
landscape whether it's you know whether
it's the advent of the IBM computer in
1981, the internet in the late 90s or AI
today. I mean all it's changing all the
time. Well, we saw a huge wave of M&A in
terms of the pipeline building at the
end of last year and so far heading into
2026, we've heard rhetoric saying that
it will only be bigger. Uh this year,
can you talk about what you're seeing in
terms of volumes and what the drivers
are?
>> Well, the drivers, first of all, it's
confidence. Uh in the banking sector
specifically, you've see, you know, if
you go back to the past administration,
there was no question that the past
administration did not want mergers.
They threw sand in the gears of M&A and
the Trump administration is encouraging
mergers. So you see boards, you know,
that that believe they can get things
done and combine that with strong
fundamentals and frankly a need to
consolidate uh because of the scale
issue that you were just talking about.
It is a robust environment.
>> In 2024, you scaled back Canadian oil
and some fossil fuels. Was that the
right approach given we were about to
get a president who's very keen on quote
drill baby drill and wants to have $50 a
barrel when it comes to oil?
>> We scaled back.
>> Yeah. Well, now you're you're you're
reading that uh I'm not sure what you're
reading, but we uh we just had maybe a
record year in Canada. I up there with
uh with what I see is it's almost like
uh that old uh Christmas uh where
Cornelius, you know, finds gold and then
he gets on his iPhone, he calls our
trading desk and we're raising capital
almost immediately. So, our business has
been robust up there. We did we did do
some scale back, but I think I think
that would not properly characterize
what we're doing up there. You mentioned
the president's style yesterday in the
speech. You're used to it. Do you like
the substance that comes out?
>> Look, as I said, uh the the substance
and the policies, you can even [snorts]
disagree on many many policies, okay?
Well, Democratic versus Republican.
Start there. All right? You're going to
have we're going to start 50% of the
people are not going to like something
that you say, no matter what you say.
And so, the substance and the economic
things I do I do like. Um the style is
uh frankly it's effective in in many
ways. I mean people they were at
literally surprised and I sat there and
said you know what he's going to do?
He's going to throw it against the wall
and you all are going to react crazy and
then he's going to come and say okay uh
what do you want to do?
>> Let's make a deal.
>> Yeah. People in Davos here should read
it. It's an art of a deal.
>> That was my impression of things as well
in the president's first term and then
things kind of changed. I remember when
the conversation started around Canada
and you had Pierre Pyf, conservative. He
was going to win a landslide election
north of the border. The president came
along, went really hard on Canada and
the move changed so quickly and I was
sitting talking about these issues kind
of humorously and I can tell you my
Bloomberg terminal lit up with Canadians
who were actually furious with the
president and the way he was talking
about the country.
>> And you've seen a change from Carney. I
wonder if we're getting close to a
change in Europe, too. How dangerous
that moment is. Yeah, it you never never
never do you uh should you uh question
someone's sovereignty or where they're
from. And you know, the president won
Indiana by a by a pretty good margin.
Okay. And I I'm a Hooser. Go Hoosiers.
Okay. But had he come out and criticized
the Indiana Hooers and said that he
might have lost the next election
regardless of what his policies are. So
I I felt that by saying that they're the
51st state and whatever. Look, I don't I
don't know the policy, but that's not
necessarily how I would try to, you
know, persuade someone.
>> Do you see the business world t starting
to lean the other way, though? And this
is kind of what I'm getting at. Yes, the
president's style has been effective,
but in some ways, it started to become
counterproductive. And you see that in
economic activity and the way Canada is
now engaging with the US. And I just
wonder how close we are to that moment
developing in Europe. Whether the
Europeans themselves are equally as
furious with the way the president is
talking about the continent at the
moment and whether they'd be looking at
boycotting American goods as well.
>> Well, that'd be like shooting yourself
in the foot. All right. Who's who's
really going to do that? The Europeans
are going to what? Align with China. I
mean, what
>> Carney's just done that, hasn't he, in
the last week?
>> Well, that's what he said. Okay. But
let's let's see how that plays. Uh I
think that I think the rhetoric should
be separated from the substance. I
really do. And uh and we we are aligned.
Okay. The the Western Hemisphere is
aligned. We should be aligned
economically. And what people should
hear and I think what the administration
basically said is that the trade
policies and the subsidies that have
flown through the years and I'll tell
you a lot of people in the Midwest feel
that all this globalization has not
exactly helped people in the middle of
the America. So when the president's out
there saying we're going to rebalance
trade, we're going to do tariffs to do
all of that. When you hear that in
Europe, you're not going to like it. So,
uh, I do feel that the communication
could could probably be more diplomatic,
but that might take years and what
things are getting done in days. So, I
I'm not sure which way to fall on this.
Okay,
>> we're catching up with the commerce
secretary a little bit later on this
morning. We're looking forward to that
conversation. He's looking for a punchy
5% GDP growth. I'm not sure if you're
close to five. What are you expecting
this year? Well, you know, I let me say
it this way, okay? I'm I'm gonna just
lean on Secretary Lutnik, and if he gets
5%, uh, we're gonna have a pretty good
year at Staple, okay? So, [laughter] I
mean, I'll now you're not going to get
me to predict 5%. Okay.
>> All right. Diplomatic. I imagine have a
great year. If we get we get five, six%.
Ron, it's good to see it. Thank you.
>> Good to see you. Thanks for having
>> Thank you very much. The Steve CEO Ron
Kashki there on the year ahead for his
business and ultimately the US economy.
Five six% GDP growth maybe. Yeah, it's
5% [snorts] baseline, 6% if lower rate
interest rates transpires. So, you know,
that's the kind of expectation that
they're hoping for.
>> Still got to figure out who's going to
be leading the Fed.
>> How we get there without inflation.
>> Maybe next week.
>> Maybe next week. It's always one week,
two weeks.
>> One week, two weeks, but four after
Davos. So, next week is after Davos. And
the president seems to have trimmed down
the list from four to three, but in his
mind, he has won.
>> Let's give you an update on news
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross back over
to Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Russian President
Vladimir Putin says he is ready to
commit frozen Russian assets in the
United States [music] towards rebuilding
damaged regions of Ukraine once a deal
to end the wars concluded. Putin told
Russia Security Council he could also
give $1 billion of the assets for
membership to President Trump's Board of
Peace.
The Supreme Court signaling they're
critical of President Donald Trump's
push to fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook. The
court saying [music] firing her over
unproven mortgage fraud allegations
could upend the Fed's independence and
rattle markets. Both liberal and
conservative justices sharply questioned
the administration's argument. The court
is set to rule by July.
US natural gas futures rising to the
highest level since 2022 as freezing
weather sparks a wave of short covering
amid risks [music] of stronger demand
and disrupted production. Front month
contracts are rising more than 70% this
week as the east coast [music] braces
for a severe winter storm. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. Back to you guys
in Davos. John,
>> Vonyie, thank you. More from Vonyie in
the next hour. Up next on the program,
momentum in private equity.
>> IPO markets are back. M& markets are
back. LPS are getting liquidity back.
The wheel of private equity is turning
again. And it couldn't come at a better
time.
>> [music]
>> live from Davos, Switzerland this
morning. Good morning. Positive
follow-through. That's the story so far
in the equity market. Stocks higher
again by 0.5% on the S&P 500 as the
president, according to many,
deescalates the situation. after
escalating the situation the week before
the NASDAQ by 0.8% 8%. And Savanis this
morning, momentum in private equity.
>> The rumors of the death of the private
equity industry have been exaggerated.
2025 was already the second highest exit
year for our industry. $1.3 trillion
will return to our LPs. That's 80% of
the peak of 2021. Our bet is this year
we will we'll surpass 2021. IPO markets
are back. M& markets are back. LPS are
getting liquidity back. The wheel of
private equity is turning again and it
couldn't come at a better time.
>> Joining us now, a good friend of this
program, Steve Paluca, private equity,
senior adviser at Bank Capital and the
founder and CEO of Pax Group. Steve, my
friend, it's good to see you, sir.
>> Hey, great to be here.
>> Thank you for being here. You've seen it
all. You've seen a lot of cycles. Where
are we in this one?
>> Wow, it's it's interesting. U where we
are is maybe maybe I hark back to 1999,
2000, although I think this one's going
to be sustainable. Um I I I drew a
triangle back 25 years ago honestly that
that had a computer and you know
personal computers first came out in
1981 on one axis. It had um the
telephone and it it had uh a convergence
of data the telephone all into one
device and the internet was was the
other other triangle. Now I think the
triangle and the Davos has really
emphasized that is AI
um energy you know the need for energy
to supply the AI and I think a hidden
one that's starting is quantum computing
which will lift it up another level and
so that that's really going to drive
growth for the next you know 3 to 5
years for sure.
>> Comparing those two stories where we
were 26 27 years ago to where we are now
what makes this more sustainable?
>> Well I I think it's more sustainable
because the opportunity is even larger.
Um they've made such progress in AI. We
have shortages of chips. All the tech
companies that bank Capitals invest into
the stocks are way up, the orders are
way up and they're they're planning on
spending over a trillion dollars in the
next three years just on that alone. So
that's going to buoy things. Uh so I
don't think we'll see a massive
correction and the companies that are
doing it are funding it are well
capitalized. So that's a difference
between 1999 there was all small
companies venturebacked and some won
some lost and then you had a kind of a
temporary crash. right now they're all
well well capitalized and it's
existential for them. They really can't
stop the spending even if the return is
not great because if one wins it's going
to hurt the others. So it's existential
for those kind of big seven companies
out there.
>> I know that you spend about twothirds of
your time working with biotech companies
and the new technology and how it
affects it. And it strikes me that
policy has an increasing focus on
affordability and lowering prices of
things like pharmaceutical drugs at a
time when you need a lot of investment
in order to deploy some of this
technology in the ways to get all those
chips. How do you balance that sort of
tension?
>> Well, we've had that tension for the
last you 20 years. Um, so so someday it
may happen, but uh what's happening now
is that the the kind of the the curve to
bring out a drug is really shrinking and
you you can now simulate clinical
trials. Uh you can simulate organs and
you're going to see that coming into
effect in the next three to five years
and and cutting the cost down which will
then I think you know cut the prices you
have to charge to get your payment back.
Do you see the United States still at
the forefront of this or is it shifting
in terms of just the development of some
of these uh drugs but also just the
software and the hardware that's
necessary?
>> I think the US is still ahead but you
know China's China's been uh making
great strides both on AI and in biotech.
So it's the race between the two again.
>> Steve, can we talk about sports?
>> First thing I said to you crush that up
one nil at one point. What happened?
>> I don't know. I don't know. I feel feel
bad for the team. It was one of those,
you know, that's why football is so
exciting. Uh if you look at all the
statistics, we we should have won the
game four to nothing. We had 20 16 shots
versus four shots. Um everything on
target, just nothing went in and they
they they made some incredible plays. So
>> you've done some incredible things with
Atlanta Football Club. I saw Alex
Dalpierro downstairs about two hours
ago. Italian legend. He was legend
>> in the mix of the peak of I think of
Italian football, which was the '9s
through to the early 2000s. How do we
get back to that?
>> What do the Italian clubs need to be
doing to change that story? Well, they
they are there's now probably controlled
by Americans and foreign companies, you
know, 10 or 11 things um that we've
brought statistics in. We've brought
more digital marketing and so so really
they're in the beginning phases of that
and and the league's very popular and
the games are all close and so I think
there's a great outlook for Italian
football.
>> Congratulations, sir. Apologies for the
loss yesterday, but I think you got a
great season ahead of you.
>> All right. You know, another another day
and we're on to the next game. On to the
next game.
>> Steve, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Great to be here. Steve Paloki
there, the Panks Group chair. I'm
pleased to say we can now cross over to
Bloomberg House. Happening right now,
the Argentinian president Javier Miller
sitting down with the Bloomberg
editor-inchief John Mikwway. Let's take
a listen.
>> After the monetary disaster of the
previous administration which printed
money in an amount equivalent to 28%
of GDP and all the more so during the
last few months before they left office
to win the election. You know this is
the sort of sequence that prices follow
that I'm going to explain. Let's suppose
you have a fall in money demand that
leads to a leap in the exchange rate and
that leads to an increase in the price
of tradables then in wholesale prices
then retail prices and then wages of
course.
You have spent almost 90 years with that
sort of dynamic. It's quite likely that
people will think that if the exchange
rate goes up then the prices will go up.
So I won't get angry
because of the way people form their
expectations because I mean they've been
proven right for 90 years.
What we are trying to do is
to understand that people can build
expectations that way and we understand
that volatility in the exchange rate can
translate into price volatility.
>> [clears throat]
>> Let's suppose you have a change in
relative prices and tradables become
more expensive.
Perhaps there is a deterioration in the
terms of trade and the exchange rate
goes up. What will happen then?
Prices will go up.
You will see a mismatch between the
price level and the money amount and the
economy will slide into recession. We
understand the problem of volatility. So
the exchange rate within the band is
free. It is free within the band. It is
free. And the bands
only serve the purpose
of people that the exchange rate will
not just any exchange rate. So then they
learn how to and they lose the fear. So
that's the role of bands to limit the
volatility. But when when do you do you
think this year you will be able to say
you have learned you have discovered
what the you know that freedom is like
now try it properly and float let's
float the peso
is what is the timing
from my point of view that will be when
we've finally cleaned up the money
overhang we have had this money overhang
because of
hangover of previous monetary policy
also due to the capital controls that
were put in place in the past and also
as a result of the price controls
since we have set and fixed the money
amount and we only now print against new
demand. At one point local inflation
will converge towards international
levels which means that at that point
you have managed to cleaned up the money
overhang and will be in a position to
let the best float freely without any
sort of trouble because along the way
the agents will have learned and if
there is exchange rate volatility and
they want to translate that into the
domestic prices they will have to face
mega's worst face they will have no
demand and will have to deal with it.
The other big test and you know it's a
fairly simple question is the
international loan markets. You have
raised money at home domestically but as
you know very well um the last when your
predecessor defaulted on the foreign
bonds and so the question is very
specific.
When will you go and raise money in New
York or outside Argentina?
Well, strictly speaking,
you know, raising money,
what we should need would just be to
roll over as a general framework because
Argentina has zero deficit. In fact, the
amount related to interest is paid by
Argentina out of surplus. That's the
first point. And through the uh tax
innocence act, we hope to really boost
and
develop the domestic capital market.
Therefore,
our need to resort to funds in foreign
markets will be less and less. In the
worst of cases, perhaps we would only be
going out to international markets to
secure the rollover and
Besides, given Argentina's fundamentals,
we think that
paying a surplus rate or with country
risk at 550 basis points, we think that
is clearly not in line with our
fundamentals. So since
we have a very low debt to GDP ratio
because most of the debt is within the
public sector and we have achieved
fiscal equilibrium we will need less and
less access to capital markets aside
from the rollover and with the
development of the local market will be
able to pay and bring down the exposure.
It's not something that given our fiscal
performance should be great concern. I
would be worried not to have large
enough.
>> Last year you famously got a $20 billion
swap line from the US, a big success.
When you got it, Scott Bessant, the
Treasury Secretary said that you had
committed to, as he put it, to getting
China out of Argentina. And you have
always been very critical of China, but
as you know, China still has a space
station in Argentina. You still have a a
swap line with China. What What does
getting China out of Argentina mean to
you?
>> In my view,
what Scott Besson said is uh well in
line with the thinking of the United
States administration. uh and this is a
matter related to geopolitics. The
United States does trade with China and
the way we see it, China is a great
trading partner.
It means a lot of opportunities for us
to expand markets.
So that is not any source of conflict
when the geopolitical
time comes. Do you have any doubt as to
where China stands? China China doesn't
have a China China doesn't have a space
station in the United States. The last
time I checked, it does have a space
station in Argentina.
>> Well, that's not proven.
>> Well, China does. [laughter]
I will I will ask President Trump
whether the Chinese have a space station
there. But if you But in general, you
know, when you were when you were a
candidate, you were very you were very
critical of the Chinese.
But
let's put it this way. I am president
for 47 and a half million Argentines and
I make the decisions that best favor the
interests of the Argentine people. So
part of that is the fact that Argentina
which is a very close country the most
closed country in the world given its
GDP per capita Argentina should have a
trade to GDP ratio of a little over 90%
and it only has 90 30 sorry strictly
speaking 28 if you want to be accurate
consequently
>> that was the president of Argentina Jav
with the Bloomberg editor-in chief John
Mikweight at Bloomberg house that will
continue this program will too. We'll be
catching up with US energy secretary
Chris Wright, Joe Taylor, the CEO of the
Ontario Teachers Pension Fund, the Port
of Long Beach CEO joining us as well,
plus Steve Tannibal of Golden Tree Asset
Management. From Davos, Switzerland,
you're watching Bloomberg [music] TV.
The dynamics of doing business today are
quite complex.
>> After 20 years of financial repression,
we're back to live markets. It is a more
volatile, uncertain environment. The
market's probably going to take off
again.
>> We still see a lot of upside opportunity
in US markets.
>> Bloomberg surveillance live from Davos
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from Davos, Switzerland this
morning. Good morning. Good morning from
our audience worldwide. The second hour
of Bloomberg surveillance starts right
now and your scores look like this in
the equity market. Some positive follow
through from yesterday's gains on the
S&P 500 up again by about a half of 1%.
The takeaway from the last week or so.
We came into the week and the tension
between the Europeans and the president
was like right up here and now it's
right down here from escalation to
deescalation in the last 24 hours. It
seems like Lisa, we're in a better
place.
>> Yeah, it seems like the idea of military
[music] incursions on Greenlight has
taken off the table. So too tariffs not
exactly uh very much in the front and
foremost. So it's almost like we had
these two polls. One is [music] oh no
are we going to see a total breakdown of
the NATO alliance that was hanging over
this meeting and then you had this
question of oh my gosh it is so exciting
to see the dynamism of AI right now
based on the out performance of the
NASDAQ. It seems like oh my gosh there's
so much excitement in AI is winning the
day.
>> The president pouring some icy icy cold
water over the extreme terrorist just
yesterday.
>> Absolutely. He said there's a quote
framework of a future deal. We still
need more details of that. But he said,
"I don't want to fight. I don't plan on
going to invade Greenland." And I'm, you
know what, I'm going to take those
tariffs [music] off. He's here, he said,
for negotiations. Of course, you have to
ask though, has damage been done in
terms of transatlantic alliance because
the Europeans really felt like there's
existential threat. You nailed it
earlier, Jonathan. The individual who
predicted the week was Alexander Stub.
And I saw him this morning. He gave me a
thumbs up and he's like, "See, I told
you we deescalated."
>> Stu doesn't have to line up. Did you
notice that?
>> Yeah. Yeah. He goes right through. I'm
there waiting in security. 20 minutes
he's sails through with security. Oh, he
did apologize though. The only one that
is true of the uh global elite to
apologize to cut the line.
>> He's a classy guy. Coming up on the
program, another classy guy, the US
energy secretary Chris Wright's going to
join us in just a second. The Ontario
Teachers Pension Plan CEO Joe Taylor,
plus the CEO of the Port of Long Beach.
We begin this hour with stocks near
record highs. Joining us is the US
energy secretary Chris Wright. Secretary
Wright, good day to you, sir. Good to
see you. Thanks for having me. Do
>> you get to skip the line when you come
into convention center? There we go.
>> I've been polite about it, too, though.
>> Of course you do. Mr. Secretary, first
time in Davos. What was your impression
of the World Economic Forum? Oh,
>> it's fantastic to see leaders, political
leaders, business leaders from all
around the world gathering here for very
candid dialogues. I I' I've enjoyed it
very much.
>> There's a worry, and I'd love your
reaction to this, a worry that the
president's style, yes, it generates
results, but it's also turning off the
Europeans. Did you feel that in your
conversations with Europe European
partners that they were offended by the
last week?
>> I I did engage in dialogues about that
and I think the rhetoric or the
speculation was so over the top. It's
going to be the end of NATO. The US
military is going to invade Greenland.
These these these were never on the
table. Um the president since his
arrival in office has been how to
strengthen NATO, how to get increased
defense spending, how to get increased
trade and cooperation between our
countries. Um, so he's here to
strengthen NATO, uh, increase the
security we have against the foes that
are rising in the world. Um, yes, he has
a different negotiating style and he
gets different results. I just came from
the peace in the Middle East event like
the conventional approaches don't
deliver unconventional results.
President Trump's about delivering
results and yeah, that's a different
style.
>> The speech has been about self-
resilience and that's been been very
much the tone coming out of the White
House. the idea that every nation needs
to look at what it has and really build
that up and that's one reason why the
focus has been on oil. I just wonder do
you feel like prices where they're at
are supporting the US shale industry
that usually operates at a higher price
point? Do you think that this push to
produce more oil is actually harming the
US shale industry?
>> Well, first of all, president has one
constituency and that's the American
consumer. You know, businesses have to
compete to be the best supplier to
consumers. But at the end of the day,
the the point of a free market isn't to
help or protect businesses. It's to
serve consumers better. And I remember
10 years ago, the shell company
struggled because oil came down to $80
and before it was $100 and their
profitability wasn't great. They've
continued to innovate, continued to
drive down, break down prices. Um, US
oil production is at a record high right
now, as is natural gas production. Do
they have to continue to innovate and
drive down costs? Of course. But that's
what American business does.
>> At what point though does some of the
oil, say, from Venezuela start to
cannibalize from what the US is
producing at home? Something that some
people are worried about whether it
takes up uh space at refiners or whether
it just lowers prices in general at a
time where they're already struggling to
innovate fast enough to keep up with
where prices are.
>> It's a challenge, but I I would never I
would never underestimate the American
oil and gas business or or Americans
across the sectors. So, I don't worry so
much about that. And of course, it's a
different kind of crude that comes out
of Venezuela. And a lot of our
refineries were built to refine this
heavier, more viscous crude. We produce
that light sweet crude in the United
States. It's a good combination. But
when you have lower energy prices, you
also have faster economic growth, which
means faster demand growth. There's
always feedback effects here. We're
going to see faster, not just US growth,
but global growth because of lower
global energy prices. In fact, one of my
messages here in Davos, talking to the
European nations, the EU was a similar
size economy to the United States in
2010. They pivoted, you know, focused on
climate change, forgot what energy is
used for, and they've had very little
economic growth. We were both 25% of
global consumption just in 2010. Today,
the US is 28% and the EU nations are
18%. That's the cost of expensive energy
policies. And what we want to see is
Europe reinvigorated. Europe to embrace
lower energy prices, re-industrialize
their economy, and therefore be a
stronger economic and military partner
with the US.
>> Well, they outsource their energy to
Russia potentially. That's why we are
seeing these exports out of the United
States. When it comes to Venezuela
though, do you have plans to go down
there? Maybe even lead a delegation of
oil executives.
>> I'll go down to Venezuela in the
relatively near future. I'll go down in
the next few weeks. all go down to meet
with government officials and look at
the existing oil facilities down there.
We will definitely see a number of
American oil and gas companies going
down as well and investigating
opportunities on the ground.
>> Who are you going to be going down with?
I imagine you're on speed dial and have
constant conversations with Mike Worth,
the CEO of Chevron, but is a Darren
Woods potentially feeling a little bit
better. He did call it uninvestable
Venezuela when he met with the president
recently.
>> Well, that's a that's a that's a
backward-looking comment, right? Because
of course for for for 10 15 years it has
been uninvestable. So it's this is about
looking forward about where we're going
and who are the early movers going to be
in an environment that's better today
than it was a month ago. But is it fully
rule of law democratic thriving society
again? Of course not. This is a process.
We're only 3 weeks into it. So that
you're going to see increased production
out of Venezuela first from the
incumbent players like Chevron and then
from the new smaller scrappier American
independents that will go in.
>> So wild caters are the ones that are
reaching out to you.
>> Yes. AC across the board. Bigger
companies too, but the faster movers
will be the wild cat.
>> And are you planning on giving them
these fresh licenses? So if they do feel
like they have the security concerns and
it's good to go in Venezuela that they
could start.
>> Absolutely. They they they will start.
Yes. and we will move OFAC approvals for
anyone that wants to go down there.
We're we're going to let the marketplace
decide that. I'm not going to choose or
pick among companies, but we're going to
certainly open up that opportunities
together with the interim authorities in
Venezuela right now. We're going to open
up the opportunities to grow oil
production in Venezuela. Good for
America, good for Venezuela.
>> Not choosing and picking is an
interesting one because we have seen the
administration choose and pick certain
companies to develop things. Why is this
a different moment? Um, well, look, to
do things short and quick, to
immediately market the crude out of
Venezuela and get money flowing as fast
as possible, you got to make choices
then. So immediately, when you have an
immediate objective, you got to make
decisions. But ultimately, we want
capitalism and the marketplace to decide
who the operators are, who the marketers
of the crude are, and what the future of
the industry is going to be in
Venezuela.
>> What's the ultimate goal? Is the
ultimate goal to take share away from,
say, the Middle East and Russia? Is the
goal to lower prices below $50 a barrel?
What's the ultimate goal with the United
States's involvement in Venezuela's oil
industry?
>> Well, the the ultimate goal was to
stabilize our hemisphere to reduce the
running of drugs and guns and
criminality. Venezuela has basically
become a big drug big drug criminal
organization with Hezbollah's western
hemisphere headquarters there, Russia,
Iran, Cuba. So the the goal of Venezuela
was geostrategic to have it as safe,
peaceful, prosperous ally of the United
States as it was for decades. Um, and as
part of that, the tremendous resources
Venezuela has in oil, for sure, that's
going to be a large part of their
economy growing and all that. And is
more Western Hemisphere oil production
uh good for the United States and good
for the Western Hemisphere? Sure. But
it's good for the whole world.
>> Secretary Ray, do you think you can work
with Deli Rodriguez?
>> We are today. We absolutely are today.
And you'll meet her when you go there.
>> I certainly will
>> because she was their oil minister and
Jonathan asked me this when Nicholas
Madura was captured. I used to cover
OPEC. Does the United States basically
have a seat at the table when it comes
to the cartel,
>> the cartel in OPEC?
>> Yeah. Because basically you're have this
pragmatic approach to Deli Rodriguez.
You're bringing in the energy companies
into Venezuela and Venezuela is part of
OPEC.
>> I hadn't even thought about that. But of
course, we're not looking for a for a
seat at the table at OPEC. Of course,
the United States produces more oil
today than Saudi Arabia and Russia, the
two the two biggest other producers of
oil. So, I think we're quite comfortable
with where we sit. We just want a
stable, prosperous Venezuela to be good
for the United States, good for the
Western Hemisphere, and good for
Venezuelans.
>> If I take the answer that Amarie gave me
when I asked when I asked that question
to her, Amarie turned around and said
they already have one. It's Saudi
Arabia.
>> Yeah.
>> And they can lean on the Saudis to get
what they want. Is that fair? Do you
have enough influence in that cartel? We
don't lean on him to get what we want.
But unlike the Biden administration, of
course, we've we've embraced uh the
growing economies, the growing uh
freedom in the Middle East. The goal is
to have a peaceful, prosperous Middle
East and not a conflictridden, you know,
it's it's about bullets and shooting
people and who hates each other. We want
to make it free and prosperous.
>> Well, do you remember the first term
when there was that price war? Prices
went to negative on WTI and the
president picked up the phone. this was
his first term at 45 called President
Putin and called the crown prince
Muhammad bin Salman and that's why I
always say the US has a seat at the
table. The president does seem to want
to work in the energy space.
>> He he understands the criticality of
energy and of course during co in
emergency situations you want a strong
resolute uh business focused leader.
>> Can I finish on security guarantees in
Venezuela? I think it's important. Can
we offer security guarantees to these
companies that are going to develop
those reserves? No, we have no no plans
to do that. The US involvement right now
in controlling the flow of funds in
Venezuela gives us huge leverage to
reduce the criminality in that country,
reestablish peace and better business
conditions in the short term. In the
long run, you've got to go all the way
to a representative government, uh
rewriting of laws and the constitution,
but that will take time. But no, the
activity we're doing is moving the
security situation in a positive
direction, but we are not going to get
involved in providing on the ground
security for people in Venezuela. Oil
and gas companies operate all around the
world in all different settings. They're
wellversed in those challenges.
>> You understand why some companies might
have reservations about going in because
they'll wonder what comes after
President Trump and whether the next
administration will have that same
commitment that you have to that
country.
>> Of course, it's an evolving environment.
This is this is not for everyone.
There's always different risk and reward
situations at time which is why the
wildcatterters will move first the
bigger longer term you know tens of
billions of dollar investments. They're
going to wait till there's more clarity
in that environment. But fortunately
with Chevron there with Repzole there
with ENI there with Shell right next
door we already have big incumbent
players that are ready to grow their
investments.
>> Mr. Secretary too generous with your
time. We appreciate it. Thank you sir.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Thanks for being here. Thank you sir.
The US energy secretary Chris Wright.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. It's Vonnie Quinn.
[music] Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Ukraine President
Vladimir Zilinski is in Davos for talks
with President Trump today. While US
envoy Steve Whit [music] says he and
Jared Kushner will travel to Russia for
talks with President Putin this evening.
US and Ukrainian officials say they've
made significant progress on a 20point
plan to end almost four years of
fighting.
Pressure mounting on UK government debt
with two-year guilty yields rising by as
much as five basis [music] points. The
move follows growing speculation for a
return to parliament for Andy Bernham.
[music] Bernham is considered a
potential leadership challenger to Prime
Minister Kirst and one that may question
the government's [music] fiscal
commitments.
President Donald Trump says he'll ask
Congress to implement his proposal to
cap credit card interest rates at 10%
[music] for one year. JP Morgan CEO
Jamie Diamond says the move would spell
economic disaster for the US and [music]
city chief Jane Frasier says she doesn't
see a realistic chance of bipartisan
support. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. Sending it back to you guys in
Davos. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. More from Vonyie a
little bit later this hour. Up next on
the program, building coalitions.
It's building coalitions that work
issues by issue with partners who share
enough common ground to act together.
Middle powers must act together because
if we're not at the table, we're on the
menu.
We're counting it down to the up and bow
from Davos, Switzerland. The situation
improving after the words from the
president of the United States to this
forum at the World Economic Forum just
yesterday. Equities up and higher again
this Thursday morning. Up by 0.5% on the
S&P on the NASDAQ up by 0.8. But has
there been a rupture? according to the
Canadian prime minister that has under
surveillance this morning building
coalitions.
>> It's building coalitions that work
issues by issue with partners who share
enough common ground to act together.
What it's doing is creating a dense web
of connections across trade, investment,
culture on which we can draw for future
challenges and opportunities.
argue the middle powers must act
together because if we're not at the
table, we're on the menu. And
>> joining us now to discuss is Joe Taylor,
the president and CEO of the Ontario
Teachers Pension Fund Plan. Joe, it's
good to see you. Thanks for being here.
>> Thank you, Jonathan. Appreciate it.
>> I'm sure you heard that. It was a very
blunt and assertive speech. We've heard
from the prime minister of Canada a few
times this week. What was your reaction
to some of the things he had to share?
>> Well, in Canada, we're trying to do a
few things. Clearly we we need to
diversify um trade particularly. Um I
think also he is trying to uh align um
with the European countries as well as
some other countries in terms of trying
to put up a a fairly robust approach
towards um NATO Greenland as it was at
that point. Um so you know to me um what
we're trying to do is um reinforce some
old characteristics of um you know we
work with people in a collaborative
fashion to try and make the most out of
the opportunity very similar to what we
do at Ontario Teachers. I mean we got a
long history as you know of 35 years of
working um with partners who actually
have particular expertise and skills
that they can bring to the table with
us. and and whilst we invest on on our
own, we can always learn more and learn
from smart people who are in the country
and know how to navigate.
>> Let's talk about how you're navigating
the United States at the moment. Have
you been diversifying? Have you been
cutting your dollar exposure, edging it?
What have you been doing?
>> Now, you asked me this question a year
ago, so make sure want to make sure I'm
actually on point. Um, so we did we did
make some adjustments to the US. Um, we
thought we were a little overexposed to
the dollar. um and actually probably a
little overexposed to US treasuries. So
we've cut them both. Um but you know the
right corrective message is the US is
still 30% 35% of our portfolio. It's
probably about 30 at the moment and um
it's always going to be an important
territory for us for further capital.
>> When did you cut the exposure and what
was the main driver of it?
>> Well, we saw we we we saw personally
that there was probably more risk of a
deflationary dollar. Um so we cut it in
probably uh Q1 last year and we've sort
of kept it a similar level since then.
Um you know the really interesting thing
is you know our business is a mix of
investing in private great private
companies as well as investing in listed
markets. So as we've started to realize
some of our private portfolio which we
did very successfully last year where do
you put that capital? So actually what
we've tended to put it in is more of a
sort of a benign but liquid public
format and then you get the acu waiting
which is actually quite strong towards
the US. So to some extent you always
tend to get a little bit pulled back to
that territory.
>> Okay. There's a lot to uh unpack there.
On one hand the idea that you are
getting cashed out of the private equity
uh holdings or the private assets and
that you're putting it into public
markets is really interesting. How much
is that a path of travel for you moving
away from private into public?
>> Right. So there's there's a headline I
should probably course correct straight
[laughter] out the gate which is to say
private markets has been a hugely
successful part of our business is still
a very much a core activity. Um you know
like like any investment company we
should say we're not asset collectors.
We try to acquire companies build them
make them successful. If somebody comes
along and says we'd really like to buy
them and give us a good offer then we'll
tend to monetize them. So if you come
back to what we're doing last year,
probably our biggest realization was
actually um selling our airport
portfolio of five airports in and around
Europe. Um but we also sold some private
equity assets as you rightly pointed
out. But our plan is to reinvest that
capital. So the point I would say more
as a direction for us putting that money
into liquid form in public markets is
we're really just warehousing it till we
know where we want to redeploy it given
our view of teachers wants an
all-weather portfolio which can be a
very resilient entity in difficult
times. We've been seeing some of that
recently and it stood up really well to
those challenges.
>> How much is your portfolio tethered to
the AI trade?
The AI question always tends to arise
somewhere in the discussion.
>> The entire prominade for Davos has the
company name.AI something AI come in
because we're doing AI.
>> Exactly. Right. Um so from an investing
point of view on AI, um I'm not sure
we're necessarily the same as all. So
we're probably more in the mode of we're
not sure every AI business is going to
be successful. We're not sure the larger
businesses are automatically the ones
that will win over time. And we're
trying therefore to be careful,
selective and the danger of that is do
you make the right choice in terms of
who who you go with. Um the other thing
for AI for us which is really important
is how it's impacting our existing
portfolio of companies we already own.
So how do we enable them so that they
actually use AI themselves to be
advantaged rather than sort of a dis you
know disadvantaged by a hitting them.
And also we got our own business which
is how do we use AI to actually make
better choices using the data we have.
>> Do you feel good about SpaceX and
Anthropic?
>> Yes, broadly. Um we own both of them as
you know. Um
>> I'd say we feel Anthropic is an
interesting AI investment under the
description I just gave you. I mean
let's be honest, SpaceX has been a
fabulous investment for us.
>> IPO. Well, it may IPO, but even if it
doesn't, um, we've seen, you know, I
think everybody gets a little bit
fixated on the market capitalization
that's being discussed. I I would go
back to SpaceX and say there's a
business that's done excellent execution
around engineering, launching, hitting
their milestones. It's the dominant
business in space at the moment. And um,
they've done a super job of actually
making sure they delivered everything on
time and broadly with a very cost aware
analysis of what they do. We're speaking
to Adena Freriedman of the NASDAQ a
little bit later on and I think a
conversation we might have is what
happened to the stay private forever
story because now we're talking about
exits. Is there something about the size
of the companies we're talking about
SpaceX, Anthropic, whoever it might be,
Open AI where by actually the natural
evolution of a company still is
ultimately you get big enough you go
public.
>> Well, that's sort of been the way. Um
what I would say is a couple of uh maybe
contrary views is firstly the IPO window
as we all know isn't open for very long
very often.
>> So there's really a question of does it
actually match your timing and you able
to do it when you need to do it. Um I
think the other thing is actually you
know what what's the mood of existing
sort of um institutional investors in
IPOs to say you know how would you want
to value this business and what sort of
discount would you want to be able to
come in at the right price. Um, I I
would say we've had lots of really
interesting conversations with companies
that being an alternative to an IPO
because we can provide long-term patient
capital, which actually allows them to
grow further, but doesn't necessarily
mean they have all the issues around
disclosure around things that come with
being a listed company. And for some
businesses, the amount of disclosure
you're asked to make can actually be a
little bit challenging in terms of what
your competitors can learn about your
activities,
>> which is why they need the SEC to make
some changes pretty soon.
>> Yeah, definitely. will need that if they
want to go quickly.
>> Joe, it's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Thank you very much. I think
you clarified a few points there as
well.
>> Thank you.
>> No bad headlines. Don't worry. That was
Joe Taylor, the CEO of the Ontario
Teachers Pension Plan. Diversifying,
cutting that dollar exposure the first
quarter of last year, very early on,
given that dollar selloff we saw really
developing at the start of last year.
>> Yeah. And that was something that did
actually come to fruition. There was a
9% decline in the dollar last year
versus major currencies. Question is, is
it going to happen again? and we didn't
get to it, but it is a very political
entity to be a pension fund for
teachers. So, at what point does there
start to be push back by some of the
constituents about the US investments?
What you're hearing from business
leaders is you cannot get away from the
United States in terms of the dynamism,
particularly in some of the startups.
>> Well, you heard what I had say that
ultimately you go somewhere else and you
end up back in America again.
>> Exactly. Because ultimately that's where
the dynamism is and a lot of the
investments are tied there.
>> It's hard to get away from it all. Let's
check out the markets together. Equities
up yesterday. The president deescalating
the situation, a situation that many
argue he escalated over the last week or
so. Equities up yesterday, up again this
morning on the S&P 500, up by about a
half of 1%. The equity market doing
better. I think it's worth pointing out
what's happening, or rather not
happening, in the bond market. Not
seeing a full reversal of the sell off
and fixed income we saw elsewhere,
particularly in places like Japan. And
in the FX market as well, that dollar
hasn't seen a roaring rebound in the
same way it sold off. The only thing
that has stayed constant is frankly the
bid to precious metals as Amarie was
talking about earlier. There is a
question about what extra premium there
is being put around US debt. Whether the
US dollar on [music] the margins, people
want to hedge and you're hearing that
from people like Joe Taylor.
>> Up next, we'll talk about trade. We'll
catch up with the Port of Long Beach CEO
Null Hassaba. Plus, Danny Burgerer with
your morning movers. GE Aerospace with
an earnings beat. That conversation up
next.
live from Davos, Switzerland this
morning. Good morning to you all. Two
hours away from the cash open, but
equities doing better in the last 24
hours. Higher yesterday at the back end
of the session. In the very early
morning, of course, the president
started talking and deescalated the
situation. A rally into the end of the
day and again this morning high by about
a half of 1%. Let's get you some morning
movers, some single names. We could do
that with Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Some earnings this morning
with GE Aerospace. Uh first it was a
rally in the shares after they beat on
expectations. [music] Now we're starting
to see some of that back off. This is a
company that is exposed to the airlines
considering it makes jet engines. So
it's been rallying with the rest of the
space. So some of the expectations
already baked in. But Larry Culp saying
that he sees continued growth and
strength given that they've also been
getting into defense which has been
helping the company as the US spends
more. Elsewhere we also got earnings
from PNG. [music]
Uh these missed expectations shares down
1.6%.
They said for the fourth quarter there
were some notable softness. Consumers
acting more cautiously. The government
shutdown also apparently hurt some of
the spending on brandame uh goods. So
those shares again down 1.6% in the
pre-market. Another consumer named
McCormick. This is the maker of spices.
A really weak fourth quarter and that's
a problem for them because usually the
fourth quarter is their standout. Uh
they also gave a very conservative
outlook for 2026 that missed estimates.
The company saying that they are still
facing higher costs. They're facing more
inflation with the uncertainty over
global trade. So shares off this morning
by about 6%. John.
>> Hey Danny, thanks for the update. More
from Danny in the next hour or so. Let's
turn to trade. President Trump seemingly
walking back EU tariff threats, citing a
framework Greenland deal. Joining us
with the latest, Tyler Kendall. Hey,
Tyler.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. Well,
this does mark a stark reversal for
President Trump as he eases off this
threat for an additional tariff against
those European allies that have rallied
support around Greenland. Now, the
president is citing what he is calling a
quote framework of a future deal. Though
he declined to give further specifics,
he did say that the understanding that's
on the table as of now is enough for him
to pull back from his threats to impose
those additional levies. The president's
announcement did come after he met
privately with the NATO Secretary
General Mark Ruta, who told Bloomberg
News this morning that the pair never
discussed sovereignty related to
Greenland, but instead their
conversation was solely focused on
national security in the Arctic. Now,
our understanding is there's a few
different things that could be in this
framework, including involvement in
Greenland's mineral rights, the US
Golden Dome Missile Defense System, but
also importantly, a person familiar with
the matter telling us that there are
conversations about reviving an
agreement to give the US military
latitude to defend Greenland in the
context of NATO. So perhaps the
understanding here is that a lot of this
was actually discussed last week when
there was this delegation here in
Washington meeting with the Trump
administration between officials from
Greenland and Denmark. So some of this
might have already been on the table.
Now John, as you all know, this is a
collective sigh of relief. Our own
analysts say that the European Union has
dodged a potential 0.7% hit to its GDP
because these tariffs are no longer on
the table. But there are big questions
about what this means for the future of
relations going forward. The energy
secretary, Christopher Wright, told you
earlier in the program that he thinks
concerns about impacts to NATO are
overblown. But we can't forget about
some of the tangible things that we saw
happen over the last week. Not just the
escalation in rhetoric, but also the
fact that the European Parliament, for
example, decided to delay a vote on
ratifying the US EU trade deal.
>> Tana with the update. Tana, thank you.
Appreciate it. Tyler Kendall down in
Washington DC. Back with us here in
Davos, Switzerland at the World Economic
Forum, Noel Aigaba, the CEO of the Port
of Long Beach. Noel, good to see you,
sir. Thanks for being here.
>> It's great to be here. Thanks for having
me.
>> Trade did not break down last year. You
just had a record year. How crazy was
the last 12 months?
>> Well, crazy doesn't even capture the
experience. Remarkable is what I would
say. When you look at where things were
at the beginning of the year, there was
a lot of doom and gloom predictions. But
as the year wore on, there were a lot of
onag again offagain tariff announcements
and that led to a lot of frontloading of
cargo. In the end, we ended with our
busiest year on record. In Long Beach,
we were 9.9 million container units.
>> You guys took a beating in the pandemic
and took a lot of complaining as well.
What did you change back then that's
enabled you to process all of that
traffic so seemingly so seemingly easy
easily compared to back then?
>> Definitely a lot of lessons learned from
the supply chain crisis. We flexed our
resilience muscle last year. We handled
more containers than we did during the
supply chain crisis without any
congestion, any backlogs or delay. And
that that's a testament to our supply
chain. We learned to work better
together. And at the Port of Long Beach,
we're always about upping the game,
raising the bar.
>> This is the sort of preeminent
globalization event that anyone has
around the world. And it seems like
there's a real feeling that global trade
is changing and that if anything it is
moving away from the United States and
to other ports around the world. How
much are you seeing that? In other
words, the high flows really were about
pre uh frontloading, not necessarily
this being the new normal.
>> Well, it really reflects the resilience
of the supply chain. When you look at
where things were and how shippers
reacted to the tariff announcements, we
saw them look for other ways to bring
the cargo to the United States. What
about going forward though in terms of
just how much volumes will stay at these
high levels?
>> Well, inventory levels started trending
down at the end of last year, which
means that all that inventory has to be
replenished. We think 2026 is going to
be another busy year. Maybe not a record
year, but another busy record busy year
nonetheless.
>> Do you find yourself competing more not
just with ports in the United States,
but ports in say Peru like the new one
that was just opened or ports in other
places in the world? I mean, do you see
some of the traffic getting diverted
away from the United States?
>> Absolutely. When you look at our top
trading partners in 2019, China by
itself accounted for about 70% of all
our business. Today that's down to 60%.
Much of that has now u shifted to
Southeast Asia, Vietnam for example. So
we are noticing those shifts in the
future. We think there will be more
cargo coming from what we consider today
new and emerging markets. And this is
why we're constantly updating our
business plans looking for new
opportunities to bring that cargo to the
United States. But Noel, is it a real
shift without distinction given the fact
that some of these products are probably
from China to those countries and
they're just trans shipped because if
you look at the Chinese data, their
record again surplus when it comes to
exports, you they're going to the US is
down, but going up to other markets is
[music] a lot higher.
>> Yeah, that that may be true, but it's
important to keep in mind from a port
perspective when manufacturing shifts
from China to Southeast Asia, that adds
about two or three days in transit time.
That puts more pressure on us and ports
in the US to bring that transit time
down on the land side. That's why we're
investing $3.2 billion over the next 10
years primarily to expand our rail
capacity and increase our rail
connectivity. That's the way to get time
down.
>> I bring this up because the
administration's obviously looking at
this data. I spoke to Jameson Greer, the
USR trade ambassador about this. What
happens if they start to really go after
trend shift goods? Well, if that
happens, th this is why again we have to
be resilient. We have to be agile. This
is why we're constantly looking for new
markets whether it's Latin America,
Southeast Asia, uh the sub Indian uh
continent. We're constantly evaluating
and updating our playbook to make sure
that we're capturing that cargo.
>> You said that you have this incredible
supply chain. I believe we met during
the Biden administration when everything
was frozen outside the port of Los
Angeles. How have you seen AI shift in
terms of the ports? because I know
there's also been tons of really concern
with the labor unions that work at these
ports.
>> Well, look, technology is evolving so
quickly, it it's hard to put your arms
around it. But I'll tell you this, ports
sit at the intersection of trade,
geopolitics, climate, technology. Those
are the topics being discussed here in
Davos. That's why I'm here because we
need to shape the the future together
and make sure that ports like ours uh as
we move forward, build the port of the
future, we leverage innovation, but we
don't leave the workforce behind. How do
you do that? How do you build the port
of the future with such a strong union
presence preventing you from doing that?
>> They're an important part uh of our
workforce. They're an important part of
our ecosystem. We had a record year last
year, 9.9 million container units. The
dock workers move that cargo with no
delays, no backlogs, no congestion.
We've got to find a way to leverage
innovation, leverage technology, put the
technology in the hands of our workforce
to move cargo quicker.
>> What are you seeing being done in Asia?
Just how far ahead are those ports at
the moment?
>> You know, every port's different and
they serve different purposes according
to the region. What we're trying to do
here in Long Beach is future proof our
port. We know how vital we are to the US
economy. 2.7 million jobs across the
United States are attributed to the Port
of Long Beach alone. And that is
exponentially uh higher when you look at
all the ports across the country. We are
massive economic engines. And this is
the reason why we're here. We're going
to build the port of the future by 2050,
doubling our throughput. We're going to
be the fastest, cleanest, most resilient
port.
>> You say we, is it the United States
that's building it, or is it in South
Korea that's building the ships and
that's building and China that's
building a lot of the port materials? I
mean, how far away are we from uh really
being more self-sufficient on that type
of infrastructure?
>> Well, those discussions will continue to
unfold and evolve. And as advanced
manufacturing shifts back to the United
States, I can tell you this. We will
continue to bring product from overseas.
Why? Because materials uh parts supplies
are still going to be needed. So even as
United States moves in a direction to
manufacture more goods here, we're
always going to need to import uh
products, supplies, parts from other
countries.
>> Taking a step back, this has been all
about deglobalization. That has been a
very big theme here at Davos and just in
general in the zeicist. And I'm just
wondering whether that's the tenor of
your conversations too because it's
ironic to see that the total trade
volumes have actually increased to new
records every single year even as we
talk about delobalization.
How does that sort of color your
conversations with business leaders
here?
>> Well, we're bullish on the future. You
know, we we understand that we're going
through a shortterm volatile period. At
some point, all these tariff discussions
will be settled. What we urge the
policymakers is to make sure that they
prioritize predict a predictable,
transparent, cooperative framework so
that the United States continues uh
their leadership position in global
trade.
>> No, good to see you.
>> Likewise.
>> Thanks for sharing your thoughts. Thank
you very much. The Port of Long Beach
CEO Noel Higava there on the last 12
months or so. A record year for them and
given all of the hostility, the tensions
between China and the United States, a
record trip surplus for the Chinese
economy, which is amazing, isn't it?
Well, it's especially amazing because
the United States has taken a smaller
and smaller proportion of that, which
means guess where they're selling it
more significantly into places like
Europe and places like Kenna. Big
question is what is transpiring here
pushing some of these nations closer to
China? Will that be the new world order?
There's some discomfort with that still.
So, very unclear exactly to what degree
that will transpire.
>> There's a man in Canada who thinks so.
Basically, from what we've seen over the
last week or so.
>> Yeah. Let's see how far that
relationship actually goes. But you're
right.
>> I'm right there with you. We've heard a
lot of words.
>> Exactly.
>> What's the action action?
>> Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us, here's
Vonyie. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you.
>> Greenland's pension fund is deciding
whether it should continue investing in
US stocks. SISA pension, which manages
around $1.1 billion, currently has
around a 50% exposure [music] to the US.
Its chief executive says it's
contemplating the move in what would be
a symbolic stand against President
Trump's push to seize control of the
Arctic Island.
Open AAI CEO Sam Olman has met with top
investors in the Middle East to shore up
funding for a new investment round.
Source is telling us here at Bloomberg,
Ultman recently spoke to investors,
including some at the leading state back
funds in Abu Dhabi. The Chat GPT maker
is looking to raise $50 billion or more
at a valuation of up to $840 billion.
Apple is gearing up to turn its Siri
voice assistant into an AI chatbot,
putting it in direct competition with
OpenAI and Google. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg the chatbot code named
Campus will be embedded across the
iPhone, iPad, and Mac. [music] It'll be
capable of creating content, generating
images, and analyzing files. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. Back to you guys
in Davos. John.
>> Hey, Vonyie. Thank you. More from Vonyie
in the next hour. Up next on the
program, AI looking for cash.
>> Very importantly have these great
companies that have been private. You
may actually see great companies that
are growth companies. Some of them in
the AI ecosystem that want to go tap
capital. So for the investment bank, a
great period
[music]
Live from Davos, Switzerland this
morning. Good morning to all. Equities
doing better yesterday and some follow
through this morning as well on the S&P
500 on the NASDAQ on the Russell tour.
As we count you down to the opening
bell, a better tone for financial
markets at the back end of the week on
the S&P high by 0.5, up by 0.8 on the
NASDAQ 100. In the next hour, we'll be
catching up with the NASDAQ CEO Adena
Freriedman, the US Commerce Secretary
Howard Lnik, the Bank of America
chairman and CEO Brian Moahan. Those two
individuals spent some time together
last night. I understand the FTS put
together an article in the last 24
[music] hours that Brian Moan of Bank of
America was somehow snubbed by the White
House. My understanding is that Brian
Moham was actually hosting a highlevel
client dinner yesterday evening and had
a fireside chat at that dinner in front
of a high level group of clients with
the commerce secretary. So we're
wondering what the relationship is like
between Bank of America and the White
House at the moment. I just wonder how
misleading that article might have been
in the last 24 hours or so.
>> Yeah, cuz it sounds like they're getting
along and they were having and
conducting an interview. I think one
interesting conversation could be for
Secretary Lutnik about another dinner
where apparently the ECB president
Christine Lagarde stormed out because he
was talking about the failures what he
views as in Europe especially the
regulatory environment not a lot of
growth
>> we'll catch up with both those
individuals in the next hour looking
forward to those conversations under
surveillance this morning AI looking for
cash
crossber M&A large cap M&A going to be
important uh AI acts as an accelerant to
that too people are thinking bigger and
then the sponsors as you know couple
thousand companies that have been
sitting there that have billion dollar
market caps implied they need to come
and then very importantly have these
great companies that have been private
you may actually see great companies
that are growth companies some of them
in the AI ecosystem that want to go tap
capital so for the investment bank a
great period
>> joining us now is Steve Tanamar the
founder and CIO of Golden Tree Asset
Management Steve good to see you sir
>> it's great to be back what a crazy week
a year how are you looking at things in
>> so a week ago
I think IMF um or few days ago raised
world growth. We've been constructive
and then there is this anxiousness here.
So we've been constructed and see
nominal growth of 5 to 6% and to us the
issue is the mix between real and
inflation
and that comes back to affordability. Do
people feel like they have more to spend
or less to spend in their pocket? This
is going to be a bipartisan issue and
that's where I think the conversation is
going to be refocused on was last year
or rather last week with credit cards on
caps there's been more um focus on that.
Um there's been more two-way discussion
of what that can look like. You look at
energy um a thought to keep prices down
and um housing. How do we increase the
velocity of housing? Now, I mentioned
these in terms of the prospects for 2026
because it comes down to who's impacted,
who's going to have good margins, who's
who's a beneficiary of this, and who is
not going to be a beneficiary of this.
Intuitively, if you're going to be
capping your profits, you would think
that credit card issuers would um be
more challenged today than they were
before this was announced. On the other
hand, if you're a supplier to housing,
you would think you would be a um a
beneficiary, and that's also off a
relatively low base. So, that seems like
they're good prospects there.
>> I'm so pleased you've gone in this
direction, I think, is so important
because this situation you describe has
been a societal issue for a while, a
political problem for a while, but
markets have been somehow insulated from
this, and now the president is putting
more focus on it in a midterm election
year. It's about to become a market
problem and also an opportunity in the
way you describe it. Are you allocating
money to some themes against others?
With all of this in mind,
>> absolutely. Um housing, we're focusing
on housing. Um we're watching
financials, particularly the credit
cards play out. Who are going to be the
winners and losers? What's it going to
look like? And are there other
ramifications to um get more money into
um people's pockets? And so that's what
we're focusing how that's going to work.
So, in other words, you're going to buy
pay uh pay now uh pay uh buy now pay
later types of uh companies invest in
alternative types of lending. Is that
kind of the idea?
>> You know, it's a great question. If you
think of a 10% cap, those pretty much
are like double triple that. So, they're
because they're going with people who
would be subprime bearers. If you aren't
subprime, you're not going to have the
buy now pay now later. That's not their
target group or prime. So, I would that
wouldn't be my first choice because I
would think that they would um have
negative more negative selection, but
who knows it because it's hard to react
because we don't know what it's going to
look like. What I found interesting is
before there was denial it won't happen
and now there's more of a two-way flow.
Okay, what can we do to address this
issue?
>> I just wonder how you invest in fixed
income. You're traditionally in
distressed debt, distressed assets at a
time where there's very little distress.
>> Absolutely. and you have potentially
higher inflation in addition to higher
growth and you have a flight into income
products. How do you decide to invest
with such high valuations?
>> So, uh first thing is it's not clear
that inflation's higher. You know, it
looks if you look at the last couple of
data points, they seem to be somewhat
subdued. Whether they become higher, who
knows? But I think that's the one of the
themes of this year is to watch that
we're constructive that inflation's more
under control. you're going to see the
composition of growth be much greater
than inflation in terms of when
valuations are tight and growth is let's
just say 2% or more. It's a bad
neighborhood for fixed in for fixed
income particularly um high yield below
investment grade and you usually do not
earn your coupon. Do you buy stocks?
>> Um there are some stocks that are more
interesting. If you look, you know, you
could look at something like an MGM
where the debt markets would finance the
entire market cap of MGM. You look at uh
Kova, a pharmaceutical company, the old
Malen crot endo, same thing. Uh I don't
think either of those management teams
want to go that way. You look at
Comcast, which is too large to finance,
but at five times EBITDA and a 13 14%
free cash flow and pretty much an equal
debt to equity um split now. So, it's a
pretty um reasonable credit. The debt
markets would finance 100% of that. So,
there certainly are relative value um
opportunities and certainly equity does
better with this profile than debt.
Steve, when you talk about potentially
finding places to invest because of
policies in America, you're talking
about as if these policies already done.
The president's just floating some of
this stuff on truth. Do you really think
a lot of this can actually get done in
America? Policies first floated by the
very left wings in the United States.
Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren.
>> You know, it's a great question. So, are
we reacting? It's more like what we have
confidence in, what we have no
confidence in, and how that's priced.
And so if it's priced as if it's a done
deal, which it's not, and it's not
priced that way either, we we tend to be
shy when it's priced as if um it's um
not a done deal, but but if it's priced
like it's a done deal, but it's not
done, and we think that even if it
occurs, it could be interesting, then
we're going to look at it. in distress.
Probably the most interesting area of
distress is actually um in a different
part of the credit cycle which in
distress debt which is in the debtor in
possession market where you had first
brands which was a industrial rollup was
a fraud. It went bankrupt and then they
needed financing to operate in
bankruptcy and that's known as a debtor
in possession financing. that financing
usually is very safe and they um raised
about a couple billion dollars and it
turned out that it was not safe. In
fact, it lost 80% of its value. Very
unusual. And with fraud, you don't know.
And in this case, the whole market has
come off significantly. So that's been
an interesting part of the market. It
reminds me of what happened with Credit
Swiss when it was bought by UBS and they
gave equity a return but blanked the
junior debt and the junior debt of the
European banks sold off 2030 points. So
I'm seeing a similar type of opportunity
in terms of that market selling off.
>> Steve, super smart. Just one final
question. You just touched on something
important, how one company can basically
sour the whole environment and very
quickly. What happens if Open AI gets
into a bit of trouble later this year?
What would it do to private markets?
>> So, you're asking if Open AI becomes as
chiefs. I mean, that's kind of the
question, right? And it's wouldn't be
surprising looking back. There certainly
seems to um I think that if it's a you
pick the wrong horse issue then um I
think it's going to be fine. There'll be
winners and losers. If it turns out that
the enthusiasm or the hope doesn't match
the reality and you've seen that for
instance it's further along with EVs
where the reality hasn't matched the
hope. You're going to have a lot of
write downs.
>> Steve, super smart, very thoughtful. One
of those conversations here in Dallas
I'll be thinking about for quite a while
over the next few weeks
>> completely because it's all about
relative valuations and expectations and
fear is a for all the opportunity for
people who are interested in debt and
when you have such enthusiasm well you
might want a little bit more of the
equity and that certainly is something
underpinning a lot of the conversations
we're having. Steve Taliban there, the
Golden Tree asset management founder and
CIO. Coming up, we'll catch up with the
NASDAQ CEO Adena Freriedman, the US
Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik, Bank
of America chairman and CEO Brian
Moahan, and Orlando Bravo of Tom Bravo.
A stacked hour just around a corner here
in Davos, Switzerland at the World
Economic Forum as we wrap up our
coverage here on Bloomberg Surveillance
in the next hour. Equities doing better.
Some positive follow-through from
yesterday's session on the S&P 500 this
morning, positive by 0.5%.
Global diversification in fixed income
markets is actually valuable for the
first time in a long time. The US bond
market is still the most liquid market
in the world.
>> The long end of the ilk will go up.
>> The tenure is doing its job. If we could
get ahead of our fiscal policy problems,
I think we could calm the bond markets
down.
>> Bloomberg surveillance [music] live from
Davos with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from Davos, Switzerland this
morning. Good morning. Good morning from
our audience worldwide. The final hour
of our coverage here in Davos,
Switzerland starts right now. And equity
futures are doing better on the S&P 500
throughout this morning. High by 0.5,
call it 0.6% up and up yesterday as well
following the words of the president of
the United States. I said this two hours
ago. I think we should recap. The most
accurate forecaster in Davos,
Switzerland, the Finnish president
Alexander St. when asked by us at the
start of the week, where will we be at
the end of the week? Diffused, settled,
[music] stability, deescalation. That is
exactly where we are this Thursday
morning. all of the most extreme aspects
of the proposal, potential invasion
militarily into Greenland and of course
the tariff regime that could potentially
be [music] placed on Europe taken off
the table in that speech. And although
it was a pretty intense speech in other
ways and it did [music] ignite some
emotions, it didn't have those key
aspects that really were potentially
problematic. That said, at what point do
we leave here with a [music] change
dynamic between the allies? That's what
a lot of people are talking about. And
it depends on who you're speaking to
[music] what the answer is. I went
downstairs yesterday after that address
and asked a few people, "So, so what did
you think?" And we got into it. They
were like, "It's kind of vanilla for the
president." I was like, "That's
vanilla." And that's vanilla because
he's anchored us to the extreme.
Anchored us so far over here that that
was vanilla and that's what people
wanted to see.
>> Well, this entire week having this
conversation, you have to remember how
the president always negotiates in
public. This time he was leaking text
[music] messages for us all to read. So,
you felt like you were living his live
negotiation. But he did this with NATO
in his first term and then he got to the
destination he wanted to with Europe
paying more. He did this on liberation
day where the market pushed back,
countries pushed back, even some members
of his team said, "I think it's time to
negotiate." So he decided to negotiate
and then what did he get? He actually
got tariff levels and tariff revenue
coming to the United States. Now you
might not agree with the policy. We
continuously see that is how he
negotiates and he did it once again
about Greenland. The president was able
for everyone to have really existential
[music] crisis for Europe. All everyone
talk about Greenland. and then he comes
in, diffuses the issue, and then is
about to go have a bunch of bilateral
meetings.
>> I think it would be wrong to say the
market pushed back and they responded to
that. A [music] 2% move on the S&P 500,
2% away from record highs on the S&P
500. What was notable is what you
[music] talked about, Lisa, the fact
that countries pushed back. G7 and
allies pushed back in a way that they
didn't push back last April. They didn't
push back last year. This was something
new and let's see if it sticks for the
rest of the year.
>> There was a feeling that a red line was
crossed when you were talking about that
earlier. There was a feeling that the
culture clash was becoming too great
between the United States [music] and
the rest of the European allies. And
that remains to be seen whether that
culture clash will come with real
tangible uh decoupling, [music] if you
will, or whether ultimately it will just
lead to a different tone in some of
these discussions going forward.
>> Let's have those discussions now. Coming
up on this program, we'll catch up with
the NASDAQ chair and CEO Adena
Freriedman. The US commerce secretary
Howard Lick joins us in about 15 minutes
time. Then we catch up with the Bank of
America chairman and CEO Brian Moahan.
We begin this hour with stocks rising as
President Donald Trump has abandoned his
tariff threats against Europe, easing
some investor concerns. The NASDAQ chair
and CEO, Adena Friedman, joins us now
for more. Dena, good to see you.
>> It's great to be here. Thank you.
>> Let's get up to speed on where you are.
You wrote a really interesting article
about the capacity of financial markets
to provide the capital needed for this
transition. How important is that? And
does that put America in the lead? Well,
so I I do think that one of the things
that everyone here has converged on is
the fact that AI is a transformational
technology. You I've heard it from
policy makers. I've heard it from
politicians. I've heard it from the
private sector and from and from those
that that serve the private sector and
the public sector. So the there's no
doubt that this is a technology that's
going to redefine every industry. So
therefore, it needs to be financed. It
needs to be built out. And as we've seen
in other transformational moments in our
history with technology, the amount of
investment that's required could can
range from two to 5% of GDP in terms of
what's been put to the into the ground
and literally into the ground so far um
for AI is about 1% of GDP. And so we
still have an opportunity to continue to
um accelerate and escalate the
investment in order to really accelerate
the potential of this technology. So
that's really the foundational
capabilities that we need to be able to
start to take advantage of what this
technology really will have to offer.
Now it's a matter of how do you diffuse
that technology into the economy and
that goes to enterprise use cases,
enterprise integration of the
technology. And that's where I think
people are wondering why it's taking as
long as it's taking now. It's only been
three years. Um, and yes, there are a
lot of incredible startups that have
been born that have like found problems
and able solved them very quickly and
scaled their businesses very quickly.
But as you bring that technology into
the enterprise, all enterprises, there's
a different level of obligation that you
have, security, resiliency, scalability,
and within the organization, the level
of change management that's going to be
required in order to really transform
your organization to be able to take the
technology in and make the most of it.
That's what's taking the time. But what
we're seeing is those that have been
using it, a lot of companies are
starting to. They're showing proof cases
2.8 times return on their money in a
very short period of time. That
obviously gives a lot of people
confidence to say, "Okay, top down.
We've got to manage the change. We've
got to make sure that we're finding the
right partners and we've got to scale
this up." I think the J curve is going
to be very steep very quickly now that
the proof is there.
>> Can we stand the financing just for a
bit? A lot of the financing is coming
from private markets. open air is
developed into a beast. Now they might
go public. I don't know your thoughts on
the role the public markets will play in
the financing of this.
>> I mean I think as we as we talked about
with that level of financing and the
fact that a lot I would say a lot of
it's happened in the private markets but
also the hyperscalers and the large
semiconductor and um players who are
public companies are also financing this
technology. But as we've been thinking
about what is necessary, a whole new
power structure, a whole new set of data
centers, a whole new level of
connectivity, all of those things, that
means you need to bring more expertise
in. You need to be bring more pockets of
capital in. So you see very large scale
firms like Blackstone and Brookfield and
others coming in with their capital, but
then also the industry players
themselves, most of whom are public, are
going to be starting to really um bring
the capital to bear as well. And then
those companies, those innovators, we
would love to see these amazing
innovators come to the public markets
and broaden out their capital base. And
I think that's what what is really
exciting about what could come. So this
is uh this week marks the one-year mark
for the second term of President Trump's
uh presidency. Have you already seen
rules change, regulations change that
pave the way to more public offerings?
>> Um so I would say that it's still that
the very beginning. I mean if you think
about what's hap had to happen in the
first year of the administration he had
to build a team. He had to make sure
that he had the right people in the
right seats to be able to start to work
on that agenda. He had to then we we've
been engaging with the regulators to
understand what are the priorities
within that agenda. And the whole notion
of making IPOs great again I think has
got an enormous amount of support within
the regulatory agencies and now it's a
matter of putting that into action. I
think this year is going to be all about
the rule making um and rule changes. And
we're very very excited about that.
We're very aligned with our our primary
regulator, the SEC, on [snorts] ways to
reform proxy, ways to reform
disclosures, and even ways to consider
changes in litigation um for the public
company um model that will make the
public company model more attractive.
So, we're excited to continue that
engagement.
>> US markets have traditionally been a
destination for a lot of international
companies. this is the deepest most
liquid uh pool of capital out there.
This Davos has all been about the rest
of the world saying how can we diversify
away from the United States. Have you
seen any sense of that in the flows in
the companies desiring to go public in
the United States?
>> So I I think the first thing you would
say is flows are always going to be um
really dominated by returns. I mean the
flows are just about returns. So if you
see flows in and out of an economy, it's
really the the the you know the
investment firms are obligated to find
the best returns. And so if you actually
look over the last year, there was a $3
trillion increase in equity flows into
the United States from foreign
investors. Um so that's been a really
interesting phenomenon. But I also would
say that that you know we just have to
continue to drive those outsized returns
within our economy to continue those
flows coming in. In terms of companies
looking to go public, the US markets are
the deepest and most liquid markets.
They have the deepest investor bases.
People understand these especially for
innovative tech companies. I think that
they understand that by coming to the
United States, they're going to get
access to the the best analysts and the
best investors to help maximize their
valuation. So, we have not seen a a
fundamental shift in that. But we also
support a great innovative markets here
in the Nordics um in Europe. And they
also have seen a real growth in IPOs
over the last year. We had the largest
IPO since 2022 occur in Sweden with the
Verir IPO. And so we actually are seeing
a lot of vibrancy in the in the in the
Nordic markets as well.
>> I won't ask you about Greenland. We'll
let you go. I'll let you skip that. All
right.
>> He's looking to [laughter] IPO,
>> you know. Well, you know, we're getting
closer to that part of world. All right.
You know, we're opening up opening up an
exchange.
>> Let's not cause any trouble here. All
[laughter] right. The commerce secretary
standing by. He's listening. Adena, it's
good to see you.
>> Great to be here. Thank you so much.
>> Adena Friedman then, the NASDAQ chair
and CEO. Let's get you up to speed on
news elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn.
>> John, thank you. A major reversal from
President Donald Trump when it comes to
Greenland. The president saying he will
not impose tariffs on goods from
countries that oppose his plans to gain
possession of the island. He says he's
reached a framework for a future deal
[music] after meeting with NATO
Secretary General Mark Rut. Secretary
General Ruta says Greenland's
sovereignty was not part of that
discussion.
Ontario Premier Doug Ford and automotive
industry leaders are urging Canadians
not to buy Chinese EVs. The provincial
leader says a trade deal struck last
week. Allowing China's entry into the
local market puts [music] jobs at risk.
The deal also lets Chinese automakers
assemble cars in Canada. And industry
leaders say it could weaken the North
American supply [music] chain.
Alibaba is reportedly preparing to list
its chipmaking arm Tea Head, tapping
interest from in companies aspiring to
compete with Nvidia in the AI race.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
Alibaba plans to restructure the unit as
a business partly owned by employees.
The company will then explore an IPO,
though the timing for that remains
unclear. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. Back to you guys in Dallas, John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next, easing tariff fears.
>> Yesterday was a tremendous success. A
lot of good things happened. Coupled
with the United Nations can be, you
know, something very, very unique for
the world.
A better time to financial markets
following the president's address just
yesterday here in Davos, Switzerland at
the World Economic Forum. Equities
higher in yesterday's session. Positive
follow-through so far this morning. We
count you down to the opening [music]
bow about 1 hour and 15 minutes away.
Equities up here across the board on the
S&P 500 by about 0.5%.
Under Savannah this morning easing
tariff fears.
Yesterday was a tremendous success. A
lot of good things happened. There's
tremendous potential with the United
Nations and I think the combination of
the border of peace with the kind of
people we have here coupled with the
United Nations can be you know something
very very unique for the world. So,
here's the latest this morning. The
President of the United States, Donald
Trump, cancelling European tariffs that
were set to begin February 1st after
reaching a framework deal over
Greenland. The US Commerce Secretary
Howard Lutnik joins us now. Making some
waves at the World Economic Forum over
the last couple of days. Mr. Secretary,
it's good to see you.
>> Great to see you.
>> Let's cut through the drama. Let's get
to the big point, the elephant in the
room. What happened at dinnertime the
other night? I've heard all kinds of
stories. Booing, Lard storming out the
room. What happened, sir?
>> Oh, this is so silly. So at at the end
of the evening they called on me. I just
published an op-ed in the Financial
Times and so they called on me. I gave
uh I 2 3 minutes of my FT uh which
basically said that globalization right
and the outsourcing of your industry to
the lowest cost in the world right had
really left had really harmed America.
it had harmed Europe and it had failed
it had failed us and that we need to
reshore need to take care of our own
citizens. So that's basically the model.
And when I was done with that uh two or
three minutes, uh one person of the 200
odd people in the room booed and I felt
honored because it was Al Gore, you
know, and Al Gore booed. And I was like,
really?
>> So madam hysteric wasn't throwing bread
rolls at you from the bank. That wasn't
happening.
>> No, I mean I put it I put it in the FT.
I mean my I wasn't like trying to be
quiet about it. I mean, I think that
globalization, right, and the idea of
global supply chains and finding the
lowest cost, I mean, that is just not
the way to take care of your auto
workers, right, who are in Ohio and
Michigan. And so, we're bringing that
back. So, think about this. When we were
done with we started auto tariffs, we
started working on it in March and we
finished in November. And we were done
the last day when we finished, General
Motors and Ford stocks each went up 10%.
General Motors ended the year up 60%. If
I told you on January 1st that General
Motors was going to be on 60%, you would
all said, "Oh, stop it." And how about
this? On that same day, Sean Feain, who
runs the United Auto Workers, called me
and said, "I can't believe I'm calling a
Republican Secretary of Commerce to say,
"Thank God for your you and your
administration. You're the first
administration who's actually taking
care of the auto workers of America."
So, think about that. You can, if you
really think it through, you can take
care of the company and the worker. You
don't have to pick sides because we want
union labor growth in America. These are
great jobs. Why wouldn't we want them in
America? So that's why Donald Trump wins
the union vote because he's actually pro
these workers. He literally is pro these
workers. It's not a political thing.
It's these are great jobs for Americans.
Let's go get more of them. There's a lot
of money set to come into the United
States and big bets, a ton of FDI. We
could get into that in just a moment. I
just wanted to stay on G7 allies. This
week's been quite a week. Emanuel
Macarron, the French president has said
basically accusing the US of trying to
subordinate the Europeans. The prime
minister of Canada, I'm sure you've
heard his speech, Mark Carney, the other
day said, "This is not a transition,
it's a rupture." How would you describe
relations with those countries at the
moment?
>> I think our relations are perfectly
fine. Right. Um, I described the
relationship with respect to the whole
when uh when Greenland was going back
and forth before we we sort of settled
it with a framework agreement, right? I
called it a kurfluffle, right? It's
basically like if if you have an
argument with your spouse that's not
real, you know, it's not a real one.
It's like a small thing.
>> My spouse doesn't go out there and
deliver a speech after that argument
[laughter] and say it's the end of the
relationship.
>> Fair enough. But you're right. And I
think they overreacted. And it's proof
that they overreacted because a day or
two later there's a framework that makes
sense, right? What did we say? We said
we cared about it for national security.
Right? We said we care about it national
security. I mean, it's obvious we care
about it for national security because
if you're going to build a Golden Dome
over the United States of America,
right? Wouldn't you prefer the Golden
Dome cover Greenland? So when you're
knocking out the missiles, you're not
knocking them out right over your head.
Like we've all seen Israel like knocking
out the missiles right over their head
with their iron dome. Wouldn't you
prefer to knock out the missiles if you
live on the east coast of the United
States of America over Greenland a
couple of thousand miles away where
there's no people? Right? Doesn't that
sound better? So this is sort of where
we're thinking about it and how uh our
national security team is thinking about
it.
>> So what's actually in the framework?
>> Well, the framework is a national
security based framework that that's
what the United States cares about. We
care about our national security and we
care about the shipping lanes. So let's
talk about the national security and
shipping lanes and let's see if we can't
figure out a framework to do that
together. And I think that's what the
president truthd about. He said we're
going to try to figure that out together
because those were the key points that
the United States of America cared
about. And I think the president's been
clear about it and he just wants people
at the table dealing with it swiftly. I
mean think about this. He sends out a
truth and like within four days, right,
we have a framework agreement like
that's by the way that's a pretty
effective tariff on we had tariffs on,
tariffs off. What does this do?
>> They were never on.
>> The threat of them are coming on for
February 1st. What does this do now for
the agreement you and your team struck
with Brussels because the legal
implementation has now been put on hold?
>> Oh, I think it'll be put on on hold
probably tomorrow. I mean, come on.
That's why I said it's an overreaction.
I mean, they know when the president
says this is what's going to happen. I
mean, what provoked the president? What
provoked the president was that they
sent military people to Greenland. I
mean, they didn't send military people
to Ukraine. Like, why are they sending
military people to Greenland? It, you
know, it was so it it seemed like a
provocation.
>> We spoke to the Finnish leader and he
suggested that was a a miscommunication
and he cleared that up pretty quickly.
There's something I want to get into
with you that I think is quite
important. This, of course, is the art
of the deal. We talk about it on the
program all the time. The president
anchors the story to the extreme and
then gets a favorable deal for the
United States. I think that's well
understood. Something happened though in
the last 12 months that I think is
really interesting. He tried the same
thing with Canada and totally upended
the election in Canada north of the
border. Polyv was going to sail away
with that. The reason Mark Carney's here
as prime minister is because the
president took such an assertive stance
on Canada. Now at the time I was finding
the humor in the conversation. Then the
Canadians started lighting up the
Bloomberg terminal, sending messages.
They were deeply offended. And we've
seen that damage the economic
relationship with Canada and the United
States. And the risk here, Mr.
Secretary, and I'd love your thoughts on
it and your reaction because I think
this is really important regarding the
Europeans. The points you're making
about Europe and have made over the last
week are valid points and they're
actually wellreceived by a lot of
Europeans, but the style in which is
being delivered at the moment, some of
them are finding it offensive. Do you
think there's a risk here that we damage
the economic relationship with the
Europeans in the same way we do with the
Canadians and for that matter derail the
conservative movement in Europe that's
well underway?
>> I I don't I think the fact is that you
need to rethink I think Europe is
amazing and it's got extraordinary
opportunity and a 20 trillion economy.
But think about this. if they had the
right digital rules, meaning similar
digital rules to the United States. We
have $6 trillion worth of committed
investment to build data centers in
America and we have a $30 trillion
economy. So if they had a $20 trillion
economy, you'd say, okay, if they had
the same rules, they could get 4
trillion or how about two trillion? You
realize two trillion for their economy,
right, would be 10 points of GDP spread
over three or four years. I mean, that
would produce amazing growth. And let me
sort of explain how that works. So we
did a deal with Micron, right? They're
going to build $200 billion in America.
So on Friday, last Friday, we did a
groundbreaking of their mega fab hundred
billion dollar fab. And where did
they do it? They did it in upstate New
York in Syracuse. Now there hasn't been
industrial building in upstate New York
in probably 40 years. But if you think
about it, it had a huge industrial base
once upon a time. So what does it have?
it has power because it has the power
infrastructure for that. So what that
does is it creates like this enormous
uplift and I think Europe can do the
same thing. I think the UK can do the
same thing and and Canada is just
thinking in this arrogant kind of
thought.
>> Well, but just to build on what John is
talking about, it's a style question.
Can you get the same results without
using words like calling leaders weak or
their economy is decaying? Right? Is it
necessary to provoke the visceral
feeling that we feel among a lot of
leaders here and in conversations with
international investors? I mean, is
there any other way? Is that style more
harmful than it is helpful?
>> Well, I think it creates listening like
people pay attention to it and listen to
it if you just sort of blend in. No one
hears anything in Davos, right?
Everybody says the same blah blah blah
blah blah. And if you need to break out
and you need to say it. My view is right
that Canada has never expressed to the
world that they have the best deal, the
second best deal in the world. The best
deal in the world is Mexico because
remember they have USMCA which means 85%
of the Canadian economy comes into the
United States for zero and there he is
complaining that he's going to go to
China and and improve it. What's he
going to do? China's delighted to sell
to him. But you think China's going to
open their economy to accept exports
from Canada? This is the silliest thing
I've ever seen. They have the second
best deal because Mexico's got a little
better deal. They have 25% on the extra
15% whereas Canada's got 35% on the
extra 15%. But give me a break. They
have the second best deal in the world.
And all I got to do is listen to this
guy whine and complain.
>> Mr. Secretary, in fairness, you've seen
from the airplanes, you've seen about a
30% decline in Canadian visitors to the
United States, if not significantly
more. You've seen a similar type of
decline from China. European travelers
inbound have come down. There is a sense
that people do not want to come to the
culture of the US and there is this
anger about it. And I just wonder if you
think that that's just temporary or you
just sort of dismiss that or you think
it's irrelevant to the actual issues.
>> I I think what that is is political
marketing. Right. The Canadians have the
second best deal in the whole wide
world. if they continue this [snorts]
path, right, which is a political path
of a certain thing. I'm going to go fly
to China. I'm going to open up my
markets to China. I'm going to take
Chinese electric cars and do all sorts
of this stuff. Then when USMCA gets
renegotiated
>> this year,
>> this year, sort of like towards the end
of the summer, in the middle of the
summer, do you think the president of
United States is going to say, "You
should keep having the second best deal
in the world. I mean, you guys are such
great friends. I mean, they are playing
with a set of rules that they haven't
really thought about.
>> I can hear it in your [clears throat]
voice. You're excited about negotiating
this, aren't you, lady this year?
>> Well, they they've sort of given a a
sort of a road map of saying, "So, I
guess we should change the whole deal,
right? You want to be like the rest of
the world. You don't want to be this
favored neighbor because you've taken it
so for granted that you're willing to
come to Davos and say there's two
hegemic powers in the world and we're
going to decide which one we're going to
work with. Really? You're going to
either work with the United States of
America where 75% of your economy is is
totally tied to it or China? Wh why
would you say that? It just I think it's
political, you know. I think if we take
it correctly, we should look at it as
just political noise coming out of a
prime minister and maybe this is working
for his election, right? Because I don't
think it can be real because if you took
out the math of Canada's economy and it
doing business with the United States of
America's $30 trillion economy, there's
no such thing as changing what they have
today. No one would vote for changing
what they had today. Now, maybe they're
marketing it well, but they're just for
their politics, but they're surely not
marketing it well for their fundamental
economics for long-term the United
States.
>> The US is doing deals with China, and
I'd love you to walk us through what's
going on with the H20s. Is it accurate
now that basically for China to get the
H20 chips, Taiwan needs to send them to
America for us to put a tariff on them
to make money off it, and then send to
China? And is it your understanding that
China might be suspectable now to these
chips? Suspect because they're entering
through the United States? So it's the
H200, right? So that's that's the chip
we're talking about. And Jensen Wang
came to the Oval Office and he argued
that that this is a better chip than
they can actually make at any scale,
right? So if we sell them to China,
right, and Chinese businesses, then
they'll start using them and they'll
they'll, you know, develop on the
American tech stack and that will take
some money away from the Chinese tech
stack. And that's it's an interesting
argument. There are two sides. There are
strong two sides. we shouldn't sell them
any or we should sell them the H200 and
I stand right in the middle. It was a
really really good discussion. Okay? And
the president decided that fine, we'll
sell the H200s to them.
>> Okay? And he made that decision. And
after he was done, he said, "And you
know what? I think if we do that, we
should get 25% for the American
taxpayers, right? Because we're creating
something."
>> Do you think China wants to buy them
knowing that they're going from Taiwan
now back to the US? They're coming to
the United States because in order to
collect 25%. Right. It the process
matter to to do it right is you import
it, put a tariff on it, and then export
it again. Okay? And so that's the model.
It's the process model to execute a plan
that the president of the United States
of America made. Right? So that's just
the execution model of how to do it.
It's not it's just process, right? And
it's the same H200 chip. And the
question we'll find out is the
businesses in China want to buy it.
That's for sure. The question is does
China's central government, right, want,
you know, when they have that same
argument. Do I want to give my companies
this chip that they're all clamoring for
or do I want to force them to take the
pain of of using lesser chips that are
domestically made but helping our our
domestic companies grow? And that's a
question we're going to see how it goes.
But I think the president put that
question out there and I think it's a
really interesting one. I didn't say
there's not two sides of that coin,
right? [snorts] But the president
thought having Chinese developers on the
US tech stack, right? Given sort of the
middle, he falls that way. And it was a
really robust discussion. Both sides of
the discussion were in the room. It was
a deep and thoughtful discussion. And
that's where he came out and that's why
he's the president. So, you know, just a
final of thought just listening to this
engaging conversation over the last 15
minutes or so. Do you fancy the fancy
over at the Federal Reserve? I can see
commerce secretary in the Eckles
building.
>> You can see him in the in the Eckles
building. Go.
>> Can you imagine the magic of that news
conference?
>> These news conferences are pretty dry
for the news conference. I'd be going,
>> you know what I call that? I call that
an Amy Wine House. No, no, no.
[laughter]
>> I call that box office. Sir,
>> it's good to see you,
>> Mr. Secretary. Thank you. I'm just
making sure Mrs. Pharaoh hasn't
scheduled a speech. Exactly. You know,
[laughter]
>> don't want that, do we, Mr. Secretary?
Thank you. Appreciate your time. Let's
get you some economic data. It drops in
about 30 seconds time. Check out the
scores in financial markets going into
it. Equity futures on the S&P 500 better
up by 0.6% on the NASDAQ high as well.
In a moment, we'll have a conversation
with Brian Moahan about a better outlook
for the US economy. His team upgrading
the GDP forecast just in the last week.
So, looking forward to having that
conversation. Mike McKe is standing by
over in New York City to break some of
that economic data for us. Let's cross
over to him now for more. Good morning,
Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Jobless claims are
the number that everybody is interested
in. And we come in at 200,000 even,
which is just a touch higher than it was
last week. It's still a very low number.
Continuing claims at 21 million uh
500,000. That's uh down from the 205,000
that we had the prior month. So, a very
good jobless claims report keeps the
narrative going of a low higher low fire
economy. GDP, the revision to this, this
is the so-called third revision, but
it's really only the second because uh
they put the first two together. 4.4%
for GDP. We'll have to see what the
breakdown is on that, but it is uh
better news. It's a setup for what we're
going to see when uh the fourth quarter
comes out. How how strong were we when
we were going into the fourth quarter?
Fourth quarter at so far at Fed GDP. Now
estimates are for about 5.3%. The
president was touting that in Davos
yesterday. That'll come down because a
lot of this uh growth was based on the
idea that uh we had no imports to speak
of in much of the third quarter. uh
fourth quarter also had the government
shutdown. A little more detail on a
personal consumption comes in at three
and a half% no change. So no additional
spending by Americans. This is probably
going to be uh a uh uh a uh inventories
and uh trade uh story for the third
quarter. And uh finally the GDP price
index for the quarter uh 3.8% no change
there. 10:00 this morning we get the
October November PCE report. That'll be
the big news of the day for the markets,
spending, incomes, and the November uh
inflation report.
>> Mike McKe, thank you, sir. Appreciate
it, and thank you for going a little bit
longer there. The chaos on a set just
moments ago. This is my message to the
Financial Times who put out an article
about the White House snubbing Brian
Moyahan. If they'd seen the embrace
between Brian and the Commerce Secretary
just moments ago, I don't think they
would have written that article, would
they?
>> You know, they were talking about, "Saw
you last night. It was great." How nice.
Exactly. Not exactly.
>> I thought we had to shut down the studio
for a moment.
>> It wasn't. Yeah. They needed to, you
know, reconcile and discuss all of their
previous, you know, experiences
together, but they were all positive.
>> Let's stick with the economy, the
[laughter] positive outlook. Joining us
now is the Bank of America chairman and
CEO, Brian Moham. Brian, good to see
you.
>> Good to see you. How and I were on a
panel yesterday and then uh yesterday.
Yeah. May the day before yesterday, then
lunch today, and actually we're going to
do another public venue where we're
talking about how you raised the money
to do all this investment he was talking
about. So he's uh he's he's bullish on
America and and he I watched part of the
interview. It sounds like he said that
>> you guys are too.
>> Yes.
>> So let's start with the GDP forecast and
the outlook. So our research that uh
>> you our research turns one of the best
in the world uh led by a woman named
Candace Browning Plat. They all come out
and they raised their GDP for us to 2.8%
growth for the 26 uh right before we
came to Davos. the world about three and
a half they raised a point 0 point 0
point 0 point 0 point 0 point 0 point 0
point 0 point 0 point 0 point.1 and the
important things I think to think about
the US is is you think about the travel
last time from last time we were here
last time we were here we probably had 2
and 1/2% 426 then liberation day it
drops all the way to one and a half and
then as as a settling in of there's the
four primary policies of the Trump
administration trade trade and tariff uh
tax immigration and uh deregulation
started settling in we've raised it back
to 26 and now uh 2.8 and that's so
that's bullish and and then underneath
it we see what the consumer really does
and if we could talk about that um you
know the consumer spending was strong in
the fourth quarter when I talked about
that it's $4.5 trillion our 70 million
consumers which we're blessed to have
put into the economy a year and that for
the fourth quarter that grew about 5%
over the 24's fourth quarter and so far
in January it's growing a little faster
than that now you got to be careful
about two weeks don't make a quarter but
it's staying up there strong
>> well let's pair that GDP forecast with
the bank and the business lines then
What position are you in to take
advantage of that better growth story in
America and when are you expected to
show up?
>> Well, because of who you are and you
we've been part owners in this company a
long long time ago and Mike has built a
good thing around the markets business.
That's what you're always interested
even though there's all this other stuff
that makes a lot of money. But look, if
we look at Jim Demar is now co-president
of the company. But uh but his team and
markets this year had their last quarter
had their 15th consecutive quarter of
year-over-year growth. They just keep
walking up 10% up for the fourth
quarter. If you look at uh investment
banking, which was kind of interesting.
So, Matthew Coder and team, you know,
early in December, we thought we were
about a billion and a half, and I went
out at a conference and told people
that, and lo and behold, we ended up a
billion six five. Um, and that made 2025
uh the second best year of investment
banking fees in our company's history.
Um, and in the end, everyone was
pandemic when everybody did a lot of
financing. And next year we think we're
bullish because the pipelines are full
and the broadening out of the of the
revenue stream into the IPO markets and
other things which are got started a
little bit this year but have been
pretty depressed for a while. So that's
coming and then deals you know just the
deal flow people can get deals done.
When I was here
a couple Davos ago, you know, the
regulatory burdens were getting so high
that you couldn't honestly tell a client
who's trying to do a $5 billion deal to
do it because you said if you're going
to stabilize your company for 6 months a
year trying to get this through and you
don't get it through, is that worth it?
And and that that's sort of off the
table and even our industry even though
we can't do anything six months approval
timelines are back to where they should
be. You know, it seems like there is an
incredible amount of bullishness here at
Davos uh about deals, about IPOs, about
all sorts of transactions uh and some of
the uh issuances of debt and and equity.
At the same time, there's a real concern
about affordability. There's a concern
about how well the consumer is going to
be able to face off with inflation. I'm
just wondering if this is the year that
we see the two come together because
last year they didn't come together. We
saw the same kind of joblessness uh in
terms of the growth and we saw the same
kind of lack of enthusiasm in sentiment
surveys. Yeah. So if you look through
the if you think about last year and
think about how bullish people were last
year because about the United States and
the change in regulatory regime and
things like that that you know in April
things changed and then by the end of
the year it changed back and so I think
that had a lot to do with if you look at
the consumer um and what we see that
spending level is not consistent with
people who feel uh they're threatened in
the future and and and they're spending
on all kinds of things. Now if you look
at the the research team, the Bank of
America Institute, if you look at the
work they've done of if you put, you
know, three uh groups of customers,
lower income third, middle income third,
upper income third, they're all growing,
but the middle and up are growing a
faster rate. And and frankly, that
drives a lot of the growth. But if you
look at what everybody's spending on,
they're spending on going out to eat,
they're spending on booking vacations,
they're spending on essentials. So
what's the affordability? It's the
inflation that people remember. And that
is going to take a while for people to
kind of put in the rearview mirror
because people can remember. It's not
too hard to remember five year precoid
where X was cost you, you know, automat
cost you this, a gallon of gas cost you
that, your rent was this, and with that
explosion in prices, wages also went up,
but the consumer thinks more about the
price side. And then the question of
will it turn over and get back in sync.
And that that's what's in those surveys.
But if you watch their activity, and I'm
a big believer, they'll tell you one
thing, watch what they do. And that's
what they're doing as of last Friday in
the consumer base across 70 million
people, which a pretty good sample size.
>> They're spending a lot. Maybe they would
spend even more if there was a 10% cap
on credit card rates. I mean, look, this
this proposal got a lot of attention.
About a week ago, it feels like three
years ago, and people pushed back and
said it wasn't realistic. It wasn't
feasible. We had Jamie Diamond come out
and discuss about how try it and see
what happens. What's your take on that?
How realistic are you seeing those
proposals as being?
>> So, if you step back, you know, we're
all for affordability and financial
products. So that you you guys have
followed over the years what we did on
overdraft fees taking down by 90% over
the course of 15 years. What we did on
having a $500 loan account of for $5 no
interest rate you could borrow emergency
loan of $500. Uh 8 million customers
have used that over the last several
years to give you a sense. So uh and
then we have a a no frills credit card
no rewards and other stuff that people
might attribute that is lower rate it's
not all way down at that rate. So I
think the question is can we figure out
a solution where you can uh avoid the
equal and opposite reaction as uh as uh
our friend Lafayette said in the
Hamilton song you know every action has
equal opposite reaction. So the equin
opposite reaction we all talked about
last week if you actually make this a
policy it can reallocate credit that
will slow down spending it will slow
down credit availability and that might
not be what you're trying to achieve. So
can you do something on a go forward
basis on a limited things and even one
year if you had to go reshuffle the
whole deck that would be pretty uh
pretty interesting and to cause a lot of
change in people's views of what they
have available for credit you want
people to have available for credit
because that gives them the courage to
spend and so so we're trying to figure
out we're all working trying to figure
out okay given the affordability given
the thought process is a way that we can
do something that might help without
having that equal and opposite reaction
because that would not be good. Our
point is it you to to get the credit
losses down to the point you can afford
that rate you actually can never have a
charge off and you start to think about
who can get credit that's thing. So
we're working hard. We're trying to come
up with solutions like we are on some of
the foreign the proposal around mortgage
and 401k usage and trying to think of
how you maybe can move the transfer of
wealth faster uh by giving uh uh people
in my age bracket the ability to move a
401k balance to pay help their kid buy a
house or something like that. We threw
that out to Howard uh yesterday. There's
these ideas of letting people use their
own 41k with less uh they can borrow
from today, but there's a way you can
actually just take a withdraw so they
don't have the added debt burden. Um and
then you got to work on the supply side
of housing. And you know, the president
was interesting. Yes, he's sensitive to
the issue if you bring down house prices
to make it affordable. Is that the right
answer for everybody? But on the other
hand, when you have the kind of uh over
demand in some of the cities we work in,
30,000 units in Charlotte, 20,000
Boston, 30, 40,000, 100,000, whatever in
New York, you could build a lot before I
think you'd have a major impact on the
downward trend in prices.
>> Well, the DJT imposed deadline of
January 20th has come and gone for the
credit card caps. Have you spoken to the
administration about this issue and and
talked to them about the potential
counterintuitive
problem with a 10% cap? We
the team and I talk to administration
all the time about these policies and
stuff and and they listen and they're
trying to figure out the same issue from
their side. How can they uh make America
more affordable? And I think the one the
number one thing we can do to make
America more affordable is keep
everybody employed and earnings growth
in our in our in our client base across
70 million people. We see a lot of
paychecks come in and that's growing at
3% 4% and that's a good number. And so,
you know, that wage growth continuity uh
will ultimately make people feel
different about it, but it's completely
understandable why they feel the sort of
unemas to how these things came to their
household and then what they want to do
about it. And then rent affordability.
We've given them the types of ideas I
talked about.
>> We need to see some better hiring as
well. Can we talk about hiring? The AI
story. It's difficult to understand
what's happened with hiring in this
country in America over the last 12
months. What do you think has happened?
What's your understanding of this drop
off in hiring? Is it a supply side
story? What do you think it is?
>> I think I think there there's a concern
of availability of labor because of the
population growth, immigration dynamics
that I think again the administration is
trying to get much more fine around
exactly what they're doing and not uh
threatening people who've been
naturalized citizens and things like
that. And that was never what they're
intended to do, but people started
reading it. So I think and then if you
looked at our small business surveys,
labor availability became an issue again
and it hadn't been for a good while. And
so um so I think that that's something
uh we've advised administration should
be mindful of because you don't want
that to become a constraint on people's
views of growing. Now the big hiring
story here where where Davos and
everybody keep saying this year is about
AI, last year was about AI, the year
before [laughter] was about AI, the year
before was in 2019 the premise was the
fourth industrial revolution which was
AI without just saying it. And so it's
not a new theme. Um and so I give you
since the first time you probably asked
somebody who decide the pandemic say
post pandemic about is AI going to cause
you to change your hiring um let's call
it four years there let's call it three
years we hired 65,000
people bank of America three 200 kids
out of school plus out of school every
year now and that's with the turnover
rate 8% we got to hire in the month of
January we'll hire like 1 1300 people
and we'll have the same headcount we had
the month of December are these people
doing exactly what the people left.
Sometimes sometimes those jobs got
eliminated. But that's what management
is challenged is how do you think to
make the the changes we got to make the
transformations um we to make the
customer experience the best it can be
to grow the company and to manage the
expense and that means you have to
really pay attention to the headcount
movement and that's why we watch it
carefully.
>> That's where the tension is though I
think for a lot of people. You've got
the societal problem on the one hand and
on the other hand you've got the
opportunity and the opportunity is to do
even more with what you've already got.
>> Yeah. And that's the productivity story
and that's what you're selling to
investors. That's the pitch at the
moment, isn't it?
>> So we had 285,000 people in 2010 when I
took when the team took over. We have
212,000 people today and you never heard
anything about labor dislocation because
we just kept planning ahead. But that's
the application of technology. You just
take the consumer business and I showed
it yesterday 100,000 people to 50 and
make it simple. If you look at that, the
business is three times as big in terms
of transactions, activity. But that's
the power of all you got eight devices
sitting on the tables in front of you
and the interactivity and what you'll
do.
>> Just [laughter] two.
>> It's it's a combination of AI plus
alerts and things like that. People that
get focused on just, you know, Erica
growth. In our case, you're saying no,
there's literally a billion alerts that
go out, which is basically artificial
intelligence. People set up advance to
tell them things go on. You don't need
them to go into Erica to ask if this if
a check went through my account above
$2,500. if you set the alerts.
>> You said something that we reflect on a
lot on our show. You said a lot of
things, but one thing in particular that
the business would grow, but that your
staff would stay about the same size.
And you said that about a year ago,
maybe two years ago. That's a near-term
phenomenon.
>> Yeah.
>> In 5 to 10 years, will it be the same or
will it start to change in terms of
actual shrinkage?
>> Well, if uh if Howard's writers his view
of growth, we'll need a lot more human
content to keep up with [laughter] it.
And I'll give you% I'll give you the
historical context. In in 2019, I was in
a room downstairs and people were
ringing their hands and as the way they
do at Davos that said, "Oh, this
technology is going to take away the
jobs." And so in preparation, I said,
"I've got to give some hope here." So I
went and did the research. In 1969,
American employed 80 million people. In
2019, we employed 160 million people. I
think there was a lot of technology and
change that came from 1969 to 2019.
None of that stuff in front of you was
available. you wouldn't had a computer
at work, you wouldn't have email
accounts. You were still getting charged
by the minute for phone calls. And think
about that change and think about we
absorbed 80 million more people working.
So I don't want to be polyiana about it,
but I think you have to be optimistic
that if we can grow the economy and grow
the thing, we will absorb. And by the
way, the population of grow US is very
modest without um uh immigration and
there's a natural two two plus% of the
people whatever it is die every year. I
it's morbid, but that's what happens.
And so and so you have bursts that kind
of replace it and you know and people
retire. And so it that's why I think
management's core challenge is to manage
this through and get employees to take
the spirit of help drive the growth in
the company and be a part of the
solution and help us make it happen. And
my guess is yeah it might incrementally
move headcount but if we manage it
through attrition and retirements and
stuff we ought to be able to manage the
outcome.
>> How did we ever live without the
Bloomberg terminal? Hey
>> what was that ever like? I don't think
we ever do that. [laughter]
>> Brian, just a final question first.
>> You mentioned Howard.
>> We talked about it. We joked about at
the start of the conversation, the
relationship with the White House. How
would you characterize it in your own
opinion right now?
>> Oh, look, I got you always want to get
invitation. This is Davos a place
invitation. So, we invite you guys some
place. You want that invitation. So, the
relationship's good. We do continue to
give lots of ideas and it it was ironic
that what was fun, we had a client
dinner last night and Howard came to
talk to clients. it was delayed as they
finished up the uh the news on Greenland
and he he was able to come in and talk
about what happened and those were
international clients who admittedly
were confused for 48 hours you know and
what I've tried to do with the
administration's policies and talk
especially people outside United States
is say listen to what they're saying you
can figure out what's going to happen
but don't confuse security with a trade
policy they wanted to get action and
they did and that's a great thing and
you saw you know leave aside the market
reaction which can go up and down on a
day what you saw as a client clients
say, "Okay, I got it. Now, let's go set
the business plans that will help have
that growth in the future."
>> Brian, it's good to see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> Looking forward to covering the World
Cup with you as well for the next few
months. Thank you, sir. Thank you very
much. Brian Moahan, the Bank of America
chairman and CEO. Let's get you an
update on news elsewhere with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn.
Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. So, recapping that
data we got about a quarter hour ago.
The US economy expanded by more than
projected in the third quarter with GDP
data coming in at 4.4% [music] growth.
That was above estimates. In the labor
market, jobless claims total 200,000 for
last [music] week. That was a slight
increase from the week prior, but below
estimates for 209,000.
Blue Origin says it's building a
satellite communication [music] network
called Terrowave, designed to deliver
connectivity to data centers,
governments, and businesses. The [music]
Jeff Bezos backed company plans to put
more than 5,000 satellites in low and
medium Earth orbit, [music] delivering
data speeds of up to six terabytes per
second worldwide. Deployment is set to
start in late 2027.
Paramount Skyance shares rising after
the company extended its tender offer
for Warner Brothers Discovery once
again. The move giving investors more
time to weigh [music] its proposal to
acquire the rival media company with a
new offer set to expire February 20th.
It follows a revamped bid from Netflix
on Tuesday that would buy Warner
Brothers in an old cash deal. And that
is your Bloomberg brief. Back to you
guys in Davos. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, great work as always.
Appreciate your work this morning. Thank
you. Up next on the program, phasing in
AI.
>> If we have to do that to save society,
remember it'll be more productive
society. So society will have more
production.
We're about 40 minutes away from the
opening bound equity session highs on
the S&P 500. Positive followthrough from
yesterday's session. The president
[music] has departed by car, I
understand, because of the weather on
his way over to Zurich before boarding
Air Force One and traveling making his
way eventually back to the White House.
>> I have been in the presidential
motorcade. That is going to be quite
annoying for Swiss residents. That's
what [music] like 2 three-hour drive
instead of just helicopters.
>> Have we got any stops on the way back to
the east coast?
>> Well, remember M asked him, "Please come
over, have have dinner with me." You
know, he'd probably serve his best
champ.
>> That happens. Are they friends again
now? Have we figured that out? I I
cannot figure out.
>> What a week. Let's round it up. Under
surveillance this morning. Phasing in
AI.
>> Phase it in.
>> Retrained a lot.
>> Phase in AI.
>> Just Just tell them you can't lay off 2
million truckers tomorrow. You can phase
it in. If we have to do that to save
society. Remember, it'll be more
productive society. So, society will
have more production.
>> Joining us now to discuss is Tom Bravo,
founder and managing partner, Orlando
Bravo. Orlando, great to catch up with
you, sir.
>> So great being here with you. Look at
that view behind me.
>> Isn't it beautiful?
>> It's beautiful.
>> Absolutely fantastic. I want to get
straight into it with you. Something you
said in the last year, FOMO was going to
drive investors to make some mistakes.
Are you seeing some mistakes being made?
>> Oh, in the venture capital community,
for sure. I mean, venture firms are just
piling in into any AI story. Um, they
can. and the valuations for these young
companies that we're seeing are
astronomical.
Now, on the flip side, we do believe
that AI will be transformational and
we're all in from an enterprise software
standpoint, but the FOMO of being in any
AI deal as early as you can in the
private markets is is pretty remarkable.
>> Why is software immune to the
overpricing that you see in the hardware
side of the AI story? Well, now it's
kind of like software is extremely out
of favor, right? You see really
important software companies being down
30% year-over-year. The free cash flow
multiples have plummeted and and I think
that is a um a big problem of
understanding what a software company
does. AI will disrupt a percentage of
software companies.
Less than half is what we think, but
it'll be disruptive to many of them,
especially if your core competency is
technical. AI can disrupt you. But what
the what the market really really needs
to understand and get away from the
generalities is a an enterprise software
company is about its domain expertise
that Go ahead.
>> Just real quick here. How much are you
looking at the United States is really
still being the epicenter for a lot of
this creation?
>> It is. It is. Look, we have a a very
fast growing European buyout business in
software. We find there are great
values, great opportunities for
improvement, but software is a North
America business. It still is, and
that's where we find trillions of
dollars of opportunity.
>> So, what do you make of all this
diversify from America stuff that we've
heard this week? Is it even possible?
Can you get the kind of scale, the size
deals elsewhere?
>> It's really difficult. And you know this
week I got a chance to catch up with
many of our large institutional investor
partners and they're steady in the US.
All of them have told me their
allocations to us are intact.
>> How many times have we heard that this
week?
>> I mean that's exactly the theme that
they keep saying. I mean they it's
people can't because at the end of the
day it is a juggernaut to use the words
of Adina Fre.
>> Tons of volatility in international
relations. But you ask the investors
still bullish on the US.
>> Yeah. all ignore the noise that's
basically coming out of the White House
and just look at what's going on in
financial markets and the deep liquidity
capital markets United States and that's
where they want to be.
>> It's been quite a week, hasn't it?
>> Oh my god, it's been a decade.
>> I I welcome the radical transparency of
foreign relations now.
>> The tech pretty incredible.
>> I think it's fantastic. Orlando, good to
see you, sir. Thanks for giving us your
time.
>> Thanks so much.
>> Thank you, sir. Orlando Bravo there of
Tom Bravo from here in Davos,
Switzerland, the World Economic Forum.
That wraps up our coverage. Thank you
very much for tuning in. We'll make our
way back to the east coast [music] and
we'll catch up with you on the following
Monday. Have a wonderful day from Davos,
Switzerland. Apparently there's a
rupture. It's not a transition. The
world has changed. This is Bloomberg.
[music]